My God, I praise Thee, - and Thou art worthy of praise - إلهِي أَحْمَـدُكَ ـ وَأَنْتَ لِلْحَمْدِ أَهْلٌ ـ 
for Thy benefaction toward me, the lavishness of Thy favours toward me, عَلَى حُسْنِ صَنِيعِكَ إلَيَّ، وَسُبُـوغِ نَعْمَآئِكَ عَلَيَّ، 
and Thy plentiful bestowal upon me, وَجَزِيْلِ عَطَآئِكَ عِنْدِي، 
and for showing bounty toward me through Thy mercy وَعَلَى ما فَضَّلْتَنِي مِنْ رَحْمَتِكَ، 
and lavishing Thy favour upon me. وَأَسْبَغْتَ عَلَيَّ مِنْ نِعْمَتِكَ، 
Thou hast done well toward me and I am incapable of thanking Thee. Were it not for Thy beneficence toward me فَقَدِ اصْطَنَعْتَ عِنْدِي ما يَعْجِزُ عَنُهُ شُكْرِي، وَلَوْلاَ إحْسَانُكَ، إلَيَّ 
and the lavishness of Thy favours upon me, وَسُبُوغُ نَعْمَآئِـكَ عَلَيَّ 
I would not have reached the taking of my share nor would my soul have been set right, مَا بَلَغْتُ إحْرازَ حَظِّي، وَلاَ إصْلاَحَ نَفْسِي، 
but Thou began with beneficence toward me, وَلكِنَّكَ ابْتَدَأْتَنِي بِالإحْسَانِ، 
provided me sufficiency in all my affairs, وَرَزَقْتَنِي فِي أُمُورِي كُلِّهَا الْكِفَايَةَ، 
turned away from me the toil of affliction, وَصَرَفْتَ عَنِّي جَهْدَ الْبَلاءِ، 
and held back from me the feared decree. وَمَنَعْتَ مِنِّي مَحْذُورَ الْقَضَآءِ 
My God, how many a toilsome affliction which Thou hast turned away from me! إلهِي فَكَمْ مِنْ بَلاء جَاهِد قَدْ صَرَفْتَ عَنِّي، 
How many a lavish favour with which Thou hast gladdened my eye! وَكَمْ مِنْ نِعْمَة سَابِغَة أَقْرَرْتَ بِهَا عَيْنِي، 
How many a generous benefaction of Thine which is present with me! وَكَمْ مِنْ صَنِيعَة كَرِيمَة لَكَ عِنْدِي. 
It is Thou who responded to my supplication at the time of distress, أَنْتَ الَّذِي أَجَبْتَ عِنْدَ الاضْطِرَارِ دَعْوَتِي، 
released me from my slip in stumbling, وَأَقَلْتَ عِنْدَ الْعِثَارِ زَلَّتِي، 
and took my enemies to task for doing wrong to me. وَأَخَذْتَ لِي مِنَ الاَعْدَآءِ بِظُلاَمَتِي. 
My God, I did not find Thee a miser when I asked of Thee إلهِي مَا وَجَدْتُكَ بَخِيلاً حِينَ سَأَلْتُكَ، 
nor a withholder when I desired from Thee. وَلاَ مُنْقَبِضاً حِينَ أَرَدْتُكَ، 
No, 1 found Thee a hearer of my supplication and a bestower of my requests; بل وَجَدْتُكَ لِدُعَآئِي سَامِعاً، وَلِمَطَالِبِي مُعْطِياً، 
I found Thy favours toward me وَوَجَدْتُ نُعْمَاكَ عَلَيَّ سَابِغَةً، 
lavish in my every situation and in my every time. فِي كُلِّ شَأْن مِنْ شَأْنِي، وَكُلِّ زَمَان مِنْ زَمَانِي، 
So Thou art praised by me and Thy benefaction honoured. فَأَنْتَ عِنْدِي مَحْمُودٌ، وَصَنِيعُكَ لَدَيَّ مَبْرُورٌ، 
My soul, my tongue, and my intelligence praise Thee, a praise that reaches fulfilment and the reality of thanksgiving, تَحْمَدُكَ نَفْسِي وَلِسَانِيْ وَعَقْلِي حَمْداً يَبْلُغُ الوَفَآءَ وَحَقِيقَةَ الشُّكْرِ، 
a praise that attains to Thy good pleasure with me - حَمْداً يَكُونُ مَبْلَغَ رِضَاكَ عَنِّي، 
so deliver me from Thy displeasure! O my cave when the ways thwart me! فَنَجِّنِي مِنْ سَخَطِكَ يَا كَهْفِي حِينَ تُعْيينِي الْمَذَاهِبُ، 
O He who releases me from my stumble! وَيَا مُقيلِي عَثْرَتِي، 
Were it not for Thy covering my shameful defects, I would be one of the disgraced. فَلَوْلاَ سَتْرُكَ عَوْرَتِي لَكُنْتُ مِنَ الْمَفْضُوحِينَ، 
O my confirmer through help! وَيَا مُؤَيِّدِي بِالنَّصْرِ، 
Were it not for Thy helping me, I would be one of the overcome! فَلَوْلاَ نَصْرُكَ إيَّايَ لَكُنْتُ مِنَ الْمَغْلُوبِينَ، 
O He before whom kings place the yoke of lowliness around their necks, وَيَا مَنْ وَضَعَتْ لَهُ الْمُلُوكُ نِيرَ الْمَذَلَّةِ عَلى أَعْنَاقِهَا، 
fearing His penalties! O worthy of reverent fear! فَهُمْ مِنْ سَطَواتِهِ خَائِفُونَ، وَيَا أَهْلَ التَّقْوَى، 
O He to whom belong the names most beautiful! I ask Thee to pardon me وَيَا مَنْ لَهُ الأَسْمَآءُ الْحُسْنى أَسْأَلُكَ أَنْ تَعْفُوَ عَنِّي، 
and to forgive me, for I am not innocent that I should offer excuses, وَتَغْفِرَ لِي فَلَسْتُ، بَرِيئاً فَأَعْتَذِرَ، 
nor a possessor of strength that I should gain victory, وَلاَ بِذِي قُوَّة فَأَنْتَصِرَ، 
nor have I any place of flight that I should flee! I ask Thee to release me from my stumbles, وَلاَ مَفَرَّ لِي فَأَفِرَّ. وَأَسْتَقِيْلُكَ عَثَراتِي، 
and before Thee I disavow my sins, which have laid me waste, وَأَتَنَصَّلُ إلَيْكَ مِنْ ذُنُوبِي الَّتِي قَدْ أَوْبَقَتْنِي، 
encompassed me, and destroyed me! وَأَحَاطَتْ بِي فَأَهْلَكَتْنِي، 
I flee from them to Thee, my Lord, turning repentantly, مِنْهَا فَرَرْتُ إلَيْكَ رَبِّ تَائِباً، 
so turn toward me, seeking refuge, so grant me refuge, asking sanctuary, فَتُبْ عَلَيَّ مُتَعَوِّذاً، فَأَعِذْنِي مُسْتَجِيراً، 
so abandon me not, requesting, so deprive me not, holding fast, فَلاَ تَخْذُلْنِي سَآئِلاً، فَلاَ تَحْرِمْنِي مُعْتَصِماً، 
so leave me not, supplicating, so send me not back disappointed! فَلاَ تُسْلِمْنِي دَاعِياً، فَلاَ تَرُدَّنِي خَائِباً، 
I have supplicated Thee, my Lord, as one miserable, abased, دَعوْتُكَ يَارَبِّ مِسْكِيناً، مُسْتَكِيناً، 
apprehensive, fearful, quaking, poor, driven to have recourse to Thee! مُشْفِقاً، خَائِفاً، وَجِلاً، فَقِيراً، مُضْطَرّاً، إلَيْكَ 
I complain to Thee, my God, of my soul - which is too weak أَشْكُو إلَيْكَ يَا إلهِي ضَعْفَ نَفْسِي 
to hurry to that which Thou hast promised Thy friends عَنِ الْمُسَارَعَةِ فِيمَا وَعَدْتَهُ أَوْلِيَآءَكَ، 
or to avoid that against which Thou hast cautioned Thy enemies - وَالْمُجَانَبَةِ عَمَّا حَذَّرْتَهُ أَعْدَآءَكَ، 
and of the multitude of my concerns, and of my soul's confusing thoughts. وَكَثْرَةَ هُمُومِي وَوَسْوَسَةَ نَفْسِي . 
My God, Thou hast not disgraced me through my secret thoughts إلهِي لَمْ تَفْضَحْنِي بِسَرِيرَتِي، 
or destroyed me because of my misdeeds! I call upon Thee, and Thou respondest, وَلَمْ تُهْلِكْنِي بِجَرِيرَتِي، أَدْعُوكَ فَتُجِيبُنِي 
even if I am slow when Thou callest upon me. وَإنْ كُنْتُ بَطِيئاً حِيْنَ تَدْعُونِي. 
I ask Thee everything I want of my needs, وَأَسْأَلُكَ كُلَّمَا شِئْتُ مِنْ حَوَائِجِي، 
and I deposit with Thee my secret wherever I may be. وَحَيْثُ مَا كُنْتُ وَضَعْتُ عِنْدَكَ سِرِّي، 
I supplicate no one besides Thee, and I hope for no one other than Thee. فَلاَ أَدْعُو سِوَاكَ، وَلاَ أَرْجُو غَيْرَكَ، 
At Thy service! At Thy service! Thou hearest him who complains to Thee! لَبَّيْكَ لَبَّيْكَ، تَسْمَعُ مَنْ شَكَا إلَيْكَ، 
Thou receivest him who has confidence in Thee! وَتَلْقى مَنْ تَوَكَّلَ عَلَيْكَ، 
Thou savest him who holds fast to Thee! وَتُخَلِّصُ مَنِ اعْتَصَمَ بِكَ، 
Thou givest relief to him who seeks shelter in Thee! وَتُفَرِّجُ عَمَّنْ لاذَ بِكَ. 
My God, so deprive me not of the good of the last world and the first because of the paucity of my thanksgiving إلهِي فَلاَ تَحْرِمْنِي خَيْرَ الآخِرَةِ وَالأُولى لِقِلَّةِ شُكْرِي، 
and forgive me the sins of mine which Thou knowest! وَاغْفِرْ لِي مَا تَعْلَمُ مِنْ ذُنُوبِي، 
If Thou chastisest, I am the wrongdoer, the neglecter, إنْ تُعَذِّبْ فَأَنَا الظَّالِمُ، الْمُفَرِّطُ، 
the negligent, the sinner, the derelict, the sluggard, الْمُضَيِّعُ، الاثِمُ، الْمُقَصِّرُ، الْمُضْجِعُ، 
the heedless of the share of my soul! الُمُغْفِلُ حَظَّ نَفْسِي، 
And if Thou forgivest - Thou art the Most Merciful of the merciful! وَإنْ تَغْفِرْ فَأَنْتَ أَرْحَمُ الرَّاحِمِينَ. 

 
 

 
