My Lord, my sins have silenced me, and my words have been cut off. رَبِّ أَفْحَمَتْنِيْ ذُنُوبِي، وَانْقَطَعَتْ مَقَالَتِي، 
I have no argument, for I am the prisoner of my own affliction, فَلاَ حُجَّةَ لِي، فَأَنَا الأَسِيـرُ بِبَلِيَّتِي، 
the hostage to my works, the frequenter of my own offense, الْمُـرْتَهَنُ بِعَمَلِي، الْمُتَرَدِّدُ فِي خَطِيئَتِي، 
the confused in my intended way, the thwarted. الْمُتَحَيِّرُ عَنْ قَصْدِي، الْمُنْقَطَعُ بِي، 
I have brought myself to a halt in the halting place of the abased sinners, قَدْ أَوْقَفْتُ نَفْسِي مَوْقِفَ الأَذِلاَّءِ الْمُذْنِبِينَ، 
the halting place of the wretched and insolent, those who think lightly of Thy promise. مَوْقِفَ الأَشْقِيآءِ الْمُتَجَرِّينَ عَلَيْكَ، الْمُسْتَخِفِّينَ بِوَعْدِكَ. 
Glory be to Thee! What insolence I have insolently shown toward Thee! سُبْحَانَكَ! أَيَّ جُرْأَة اجْتَرَأْتُ عَلَيْكَ؟ 
What delusion with which I have deluded myself! وَأَيَّ تَغْرِير غَرَّرْتُ بِنَفْسِي 
My Master, have mercy on my falling flat on my face مَوْلاَيَ إرْحَمْ كَبْوَتِيْ لِحُرِّ وَجْهِي، 
the slipping of my foot, grant me my ignorance through Thy clemency, وَزَلَّةَ قَدَمِي، وَعُدْ بِحِلْمِكَ عَلَى جَهْلِي، 
and my evildoing through Thy beneficence, for I admit my sin وَبِإحْسَانِكَ عَلَى إسَآءَتِي، فَأَنَا الْمُقِرُّ بِذَنْبِي، 
and I confess my offense: Here are my hand and my forelock! الْمُعْتَرِفُ بِخَطِيئَتِي، وَهَذِهِ يَدِيْ وَنَاصِيَتِي، 
I am resigned to retaliation against my soul! أَسْتَكِينُ بِالْقَـوْدِ مِنْ نَفْسِي . 
Have mercy on my white hair, the depletion of my days, إرْحَمْ شَيْبَتِي، وَنَفَادَ أَيَّامِي، 
the nearing of my term, my frailty, وَاقْتِرَابَ أَجَلِي، وَضَعْفِي، 
my misery, and the paucity of my stratagems! وَمَسْكَنَتِي، وَقِلَّةَ حِيلَتِي. 
My Master, and have mercy upon me when my trace is cut off from this world, مَوْلاَيَ وَارْحَمْنِي إذَا انْقَطَعَ مِنَ الدُّنْيَا أَثَرِي، 
my mention is effaced among the creatures, وَامَّحى مِنَ الْمَخْلُوقِينَ ذِكْرِي، 
and I join the forgotten, like the forgotten ones! وَكُنْتُ فِي الْمَنْسِيِّينَ، كَمَنْ قَدْ نُسِيَ. 
My Master, and have mercy upon me at the change of my form and state مَوْلاَيَ وَارْحَمْنِي عِنْدَ تَغَيُّرِ صُورَتِي 
when my body decays, my limbs are scattered, وَحَالِي إذَا بَلِيَ جِسْمِي، وَتَفَرَّقَتْ أَعْضَائِي، 
and my joints are dismembered! O my heedlessness toward what was wanted from me! وَتَقَطَّعَتْ أَوْصَالِيْ، يا غَفْلَتِي عَمَّا يُرَادُ بِيَ. 
My Master, have mercy upon me at my mustering and uprising مَوْلاَيَ وَارْحَمْنِي فِي حَشْرِي وَنَشْرِي، 
and on that day, appoint my standing place with Thy friends, وَاجْعَل فِي ذَلِكَ الْيَومِ مَعَ أَوْلِيَآئِكَ مَوْقِفِي، 
my place of emergence with Thy beloveds, وَفِي أَحِبَّائِكَ مَصْدَرِي، 
and my dwelling in Thy neighbourhood! O Lord of the worlds! وَفِي جِوَارِكَ مَسْكَنِي يَا رَبَّ الْعَالَمِينَ. 
