O God, to Thee belongs praise for Thy covering over after Thy knowledge أَللَّهُمَّ لَكَ الْحَمْدُ عَلَى سِتْرِكَ بَعْدَ عِلْمِكَ ، 
and Thy pardon after Thy awareness! وَمُعَافَاتِكَ بَعْدَ خُبْرِكَ، 
Each of us has committed faults, but Thou hast not made him notorious, فَكُلُّنَا قَدِ اقْتَرَفَ الْعَائِبَةَ فَلَمْ تَشْهَرْهُ ، 
done indecencies, but Thou hast not disgraced him, وَارْتَكَبَ الْفَاحِشَةَ فَلَم تَفْضَحْهُ 
and covered over evil deeds, but Thou hast not pointed to him. وَتَسَتَّـرَ بِالْمَسَاوِي فَلَمْ تَدْلُلْ عَلَيْهِ، 
How many are Thy prohibited acts which we have performed, كَمْ نهْي لَكَ قَدْ أَتَيْنَاهُ، 
Thy commandments of which Thou hast told us which we have transgressed, وَأَمْر قَدْ وَقَفْتَنَا عَلَيْهِ فَتَعَدَّيْنَاهُ، 
the evil deeds which we have earned, the offenses which we have committed! وَسَيِّئَة اكْتَسَبْنَاهَا، وَخَطِيئَة ارْتَكَبْنَـاهَا، 
Thou seest them to the exclusion of all observers; كُنْتَ الْمُطَّلِعَ عَلَيْهَا دُونَ النَّاظِرِينَ، 
Thou hast the power to make them public above all the powerful! وَالْقَادِرَ عَلَى إعْلاَنِهَا فَوْقَ الْقَادِرِينَ، 
By giving us safety Thou hast veiled their eyes كَانَتْ عَافِيَتُكَ لَنَا حِجَاباً دُونَ أَبْصَارِهِمْ، 
and stopped their ears. وَرَدْماً دُونَ أَسْمَاعِهِمْ، 
So make the shameful things Thou hast covered over فَاجْعَلْ مَا ستَرْتَ مِنَ الْعَوْرَةِ، 
and the inward reality Thou hast concealed our admonisher, وَأَخْفَيْتَ مِنَ الدَّخِيلَةِ وَاعِظاً لَنَا، 
a restrainer upon bad character traits and committing offenses, وَزَاجِراً عَنْ سُوْءِ الْخُلْقِ وَاقْتِرَافِ الخَطِيئَـةِ، 
and a striving toward the repentance that erases [sins] and the praiseworthy path! وَسَعْياً إلَى التَّوْبَةِ الْمَاحِيَةِ وَالطَّرِيْقِ الْمَحْمُودَةِ، 
Bring the time of striving near وقَرِّبِ الْوَقْتَ فِيهِ ، 
and visit us not with heedlessness of Thee! وَلاَ تَسُمْنَا الْغَفْلَةَ عَنْكَ 
Surely we are Thy beseechers, the repenters of sins. إنَّا إلَيْكَ رَاغِبُونَ ، وَمِنَ الذُّنُوبِ تَائِبُونَ. 
And bless Thy chosen, O God, from Thy creation, وَصَلِّ عَلَى خِيَرَتِكَ اللَّهُمَّ مِنْ خَلْقِكَ 
Muhammad and his descendants, the friends selected from among Thy creatures, the pure, مُحَمَّد وَعِتْرَتِهِ الصِّفْـوَةِ مِنْ بَرِيَّتِـكَ الطَّاهِرِينَ ، 
and make us listeners to them and obeyers, as Thou hast commanded! وَاجْعَلْنَا لَهُمْ سَامِعِينَ وَمُطِيعِينَ كَمَا أَمَرْتَ . 

 
 


