O God, if Thou willest, Thou wilt pardon us through Thy bounty اللّهُمَّ إن تَشَأْ تعفُ عَنّا فَبِفضْلِكَ ، 
and if Thou willest, Thou wilt chastise us through Thy justice. So make our ways smooth to Thy pardon through Thy kindness وَانْ تَشَأْ تُعَذِّبْنا فَبَعدْلِكَ. فَسَهِّلْ لَنَا عَفْوَكَ بِمنِّكَ ، 
and grant us sanctuary from Thy chastisement through Thy forbearance, for none of us has the endurance for Thy justice وَأَجِرْنَا مِنْ عَذَابِكَ بِتَجاوُزكَ; فَإنَّهُ لاَ طاقَةَ لَنَا بَعدلِكَ، 
and none of us can reach deliverance without Thy pardon! وَلاَ نجاةَ لأحَد مِنّا دُوْنَ عَفْوِكَ. 
O Richest of the rich! Here we are, Thy servants, before Thee. يا غَنِيَّ الأغْنياء هَا نَحَنُ عِبادُكَ بين يدَيكَ 
I am the neediest of the needy toward Thee, so redress our neediness through Thy plenty وَأَنَا أَفقَرُ الفْقَراء إليْكَ فَأجْبُرْ فاقَتَنا بِوُسْعِكَ ، 
and cut us not off from our hopes through Thy withholding, lest Thou makest wretched him who seeks felicity through Thee ولا تَقْطَعَ رَجَاءنا بِمَنْعِكَ فَتَكُوْنَ قد أَشْقَيْتَ مَنِ اسْتَسْعَدَ بِكَ ، 
and deprivest him who seeks help from Thy bounty! وَجَرَمْتَ مَنِ اسْتَرْفَدَ فَضْلَكَ. 
Then to whom would we return after Thee? فَإلى مَنْ حيْنئذ مُنْقَلَبُنَا عَنْكَ ، 
Where would we go from Thy gate? وإلى أيْنَ مَذهَبُنَا عن بَابِكَ ، 
Glory be to Thee! We are the distressed, the response to whom Thou hast made incumbent, سُبْحَنَكَ نَحْنُ المضْطُّرون الذّينَ أَوْجَبْتَ إجابَتَهُمْ ، 
the people from whom Thou hast promised to remove the evil. وَأهْلُ السُّوْء الذّيْنَ وَعَدْتَ الْكَشْفَ عَنْهُمْ. 
That thing most resembling Thy will وَأَشْبَـهُ الأَشْياءِ بِمَشِيَّتِـكَ ، 
and that affair most worthy for Thee in Thy mightiness is showing mercy to him who asks Thee for mercy وَأَوْلَى الأمُورِ بِكَ فِيْ عَظَمَتِكَ رَحْمَةُ مَنِ اسْتَرْحَمَكَ، 
and helping him who seeks help from Thee. So show mercy upon our pleading with Thee وَغَوْثُ مَنِ اسْتَغَاثَ بِكَ، فَارْحَمْ تَضَرُّعَنَا إلَيْكَ، 
and free us from need when we throw ourselves before Thee! وَأَغْنِنَا إذْ طَرَحْنَـا أَنْفُسَنَا بَيْنَ يَـدَيْكَ. 
O God, Satan will gloat over us if we follow him in disobeying Thee, أللَّهُمَّ إنَّ الشَّيْطَانَ قَدْ شمِتَ بِنَا إذْ شَايَعْنَاهُ عَلَى مَعْصِيَتِكَ، 
so bless Muhammad and his Household فَصَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
and let him not gloat over us after we have renounced him for Thee وَلا تُشْمِتْهُ بِنَا بَعْدَ تَرْكِنَا إيَّاهُ لَكَ، 
and beseeched Thee against him! وَرَغْبَتِنَا عَنْهُ إلَيْكَ. 
