O God, bless Muhammad and his Household أَللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
and release me from a debt which makes me lose face, وَهَبْ لِيَ الْعَافِيَةَ مِنْ دَيْن تُخْلِقُ بِهِ وَجْهِي، 
confuses my mind, disrupts my thinking, وَيَحَارُ فِيهِ ذِهْنِي، وَيَتَشَعَّبُ لَهُ فِكْرِي، 
and prolongs my occupation with attending to it! وَيَطُولُ بِمُمَارَسَتِهِ شُغْلِي، 
I seek refuge in Thee, my Lord, from worry and thought about debt, وَأَعُوذُ بِكَ يَا رَبِّ مِنْ هَمِّ الدَّيْنِ وَفِكْرِهِ، 
from the distraction and sleeplessness of debt; وَشُغْلِ الدَّيْنِ وَسَهَرِهِ. 
so bless Muhammad and his Household and give me refuge from it! فَصَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ وَأَعِذْنِي مِنْهُ. 
I seek sanctuary in Thee, my Lord, from debt's abasement in life وَأَسْتَجيرُ بِكَ يَا رَبِّ مِنْ ذِلَّتِهِ فِي الْحَيَاةِ 
and its ill effects after death, وَمِنْ تَبِعَتِهِ بَعْدَ الْوَفَاةِ. 
so bless Muhammad and his Household and give me sanctuary from it فَصَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ وَأَجِرْنِي مِنْهُ 
through a bountiful plenty or a continually arriving sufficiency! بِوُسْع فاضِل أَوْ كَفَاف وَاصِل. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household أَللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِـهِ 
prevent me from extravagance and excess, وَاحْجُبْنِي عَنِ السَّرَفِ وَالازْدِيَادِ، 
put me on the course of generous spending and moderation, وَقَوِّمْنِي بِالْبَذْلِ وَالاقْتِصَـادِ، 
teach me excellent distribution, وَعَلِّمْنِي حُسْنَ التَّقْدِيرِ، 
hold me back through Thy gentleness from squandering, وَاقْبِضْنِي بِلُطْفِكَ عَنِ التَّبْذِيرِ 
allow me to attain my provisions through lawful means, وَأَجْرِ مِنْ أَسْبَابِ الْحَلاَلِ أَرْزَاقِي، 
direct my spending toward the gateways of devotion, وَوَجِّهْ فِي أَبْوَابِ الْبِرِّ إنْفَاقِي، 
and take away from me any possession which will bring forth pride in me, وَازْوِ عَنِّي مِنَ الْمَالِ مَا يُحْدِثُ لِي مَخِيلََةً 
lead to insolence, or drag me in its heels to rebellion! أَوْ تَأَدِّياً إلَى بَغْي، أَوْ مَا أَتَعَقَّبُ مِنْهُ طُغْيَـاناً. 
O God, make me love the companionship of the poor أللَّهُمَّ حَبِّبْ إلَيَّ صُحْبَـةَ الْفُقَرَاءِ، 
and help me be their companion with excellent patience! وَأَعِنِّي عَلَى صُحْبَتِهِمْ بِحُسْنِ الْصَّبْرِ، 
Whenever Thou takest away from me the goods of this perishing world, وَمَـا زَوَيْتَ عَنِّي مِنْ مَتَاعِ الدُّنْيَاالفَانِيَةِ 
store them for me in Thy abiding treasuries! فَاذْخَرْهُ لِيْ فِي خَزَائِنِكَ البَاقِيَةِ، 
Make this world's broken pieces which Thou hast conferred upon me وَاجْعَلْ مَا خَوَّلْتَنِي مِنْ حُطَامِهَا، 
and its goods which Thou hast quickly granted to me a way to reach Thy neighbourhood, وَعَجَّلْتَ لِي مِنْ مَتَاعِهَا بُلْغَةً إلَى جِوَارِكَ، 
a link to Thy nearness, and a means to Thy Garden! وَوُصْلَةً إلَى قُرْبِكَ، وَذَرِيعَةً إلَى جَنَّتِكَ 
Verily Thou art Possessor of bounty abounding, إنَّكَ ذو الْفَضْلِ الْعَظِيمِ، 
and Thou art the Munificent, the Generous. وَأَنْتَ الْجَوَادُ الْكَرِيْمُ. 

 
 
