Praise belongs to God in satisfaction with God's decision! الْحَمْدُ للهِ رِضىً بِحُكْمِ اللهِ ، 
I bear witness that God has apportioned the livelihoods of His servants with justice شَهِدْتُ أَنَّ اللهَ قَسَمَ مَعَايِشَ عِبَادِهِ بِالْعَدْلِ ، 
and undertaken bounty for all His creatures. وَأَخَذَ عَلَى جَمِيْعِ خَلْقِهِ بِالْفَضْلِ. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household, أللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ، 
tempt me not with what Thou hast given to Thy creatures وَلاَ تَفْتِنِّي بِمَا أَعْطَيْتَهُمْ 
and tempt them not with what Thou hast withheld from me, lest I envy Thy creatures and despise Thy decision! وَلا تَفْتِنْهُمْ بِمَا مَنَعْتَنِي فَأحْسُدَ خَلْقَكَ، وَأَغْمِطَ حُكْمَكَ. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household, أللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِـهِ، 
delight my soul through Thy decree, وَطَيِّبْ بِقَضَائِـكَ نَفْسِي 
expand my breast through the instances of Thy decision, وَوَسِّعْ بِمَـواقِعِ حُكْمِكَ صَدْرِي 
give to me a trust through which I may admit وَهَبْ لِي الثِّقَةَ لأُقِرَّ مَعَهَا 
that Thy decree runs only to the best, بِأََنَّ قَضَاءَكَ لَمْ يَجْرِ إلاَّ بِالْخِيَرَةِ 
and let my gratitude to Thee for what Thou hast taken away from me وَاجْعَلْ شُكْرِي لَكَ عَلَى مَا زَوَيْتَ عَنّي 
be more abundant than my gratitude to Thee for what Thou hast conferred upon me! أَوْفَرَ مِنْ شُكْرِي إيَّاكَ عَلَى مَا خَوَّلْتَنِي 
Preserve me from imagining any meanness in someone who is destitute وَاعْصِمْنِي مِن أنْ أظُنَّ بِذِي عَدْم خَسَاسَةً، 
or imagining any superiority in someone who possesses wealth, أَوْ أَظُنَّ بِصَاحِبِ ثَرْوَة فَضْلاً، 
for the noble is he whom obedience to Thee has ennobled فَإنَّ الشَّرِيفَ مَنْ شَرَّفَتْهُ طَاعَتُكَ، 
and the exalted is he whom worship of Thee has exalted! وَالْعَزِيزَ مَنْ أَعَزَّتْهُ عِبَادَتُكَ. 
So bless Muhammad and his Household, فَصَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
give us to enjoy a wealth which does not run out, confirm us with an exaltation which will never be lost, وَمَتِّعْنَا بِثَرْوَة لاَ تَنْفَدُ، وَأَيِّدْنَا بِعِزٍّ لاَ يُفْقَدُ 
and let us roam freely in the kingdom of everlastingness! وَأَسْرِحْنَا فِيْ مُلْكِ الأَبَدِ 
Surely Thou art the One, 'the Unique, the Eternal Refuge; إنَّكَ الْوَاحِدُ الأَحَدُ الصَّمَدُ 
Thou hast not begotten, nor hast Thou been begotten, الَّذِي لَمْ تَلِدْ وَلَمْ تُولَدْ 
and equal to Thee is not any one' (ref.112:1-4)! وَلَمْ يَكُنْ لَكَ كُفُواً أَحَدٌ. 

 
