My God, Thou guided me but I diverted myself, إلهِي هَدَيْتَنِي فَلَهَوْتُ، 
Thou admonished me but my heart became hardened, وَوَعَظْتَ فَقَسَوْتُ، 
Thou tried me graciously but I disobeyed. وَأَبْلَيْتَ الْجَمِيلَ فَعَصَيْتُ، 
Then, when Thou caused me to know it, I came to know that from ثُمَّ عَرَفْتُ مَا أَصْدَرْتَ؟ 
which Thou hadst turned [me] away, so I prayed forgiveness and Thou released, and I returned إذْ عَرَّفْتَنِيهِ فَاسْتَغْفَرْتُ، فَأَقَلْتَ فَعُدتُ، 
and Thou covered over. So Thine, my God, is the praise! فَسَتَرْتَ فَلَكَ إلهِي الْحَمْدُ. 
I plunged into the valleys of destruction تَقَحَّمْتُ أَوْدِيَةَ الْهَلاَكِ، 
and settled in the ravines of ruin, exposing myself to Thy chastisements وَحَلَلْتُ شِعَابَ تَلَف تَعَرَّضْتُ فِيهَا لِسَطَوَاتِكَ، 
and the descent of Thy punishments! وَبِحُلُولِهَا عُقُوبَاتِكَ، 
My mediation with Thee is the profession of Unity, وَوَسِيلَتِي إلَيْكَ التَّوْحِيدُ، 
my way of coming to Thee that I associate nothing with Thee, وَذَرِيْعَتِي أَنِّي لَمْ أُشْرِكْ بِكَ شَيْئاً، 
nor do I take along with Thee a god; وَلَمْ أَتَّخِذْ مَعَكَ إلهاً، 
I have fled to Thee with my soul - وَقَدْ فَرَرْتُ إلَيْكَ بِنَفْسِي، 
in Thee is the place of flight for the evildoer, وَإلَيْكَ مَفَرُّ الْمُسِيءِ، 
the place of escape for him who has squandered the share of his soul and seeks asylum. وَمَفْزَعُ الْمُضَيِّعِ لِحَظِّ نَفْسِهِ، الْمُلْتَجِئِ. 
How many an enemy has unsheathed the sword of his enmity toward me, فَكَمْ مِنْ عَدُوٍّ انْتَضى عَلَيَّ سَيْفَ عَدَاوَتِهِ، 
honed the cutting edge of his knife for me, وَشَحَذَ لِيْ ظُبَةَ مُدْيَتِهِ، 
sharpened the tip of his blade for me, وَأَرْهَفَ لِي شَبَا حَدِّهِ، 
mixed his killing potions for me, وَدَافَ لِيْ قَوَاتِلَ سُمُومِهِ، 
pointed toward me his straight-flying arrows, وَسَدَّدَ نَحْوِي صَوَائِبَ سِهَامِهِ، 
not allowed the eye of his watchfulness to sleep toward me, وَلَمْ تَنَمْ عَنِّي عَيْنُ حِرَاسَتِهِ، 
and secretly thought of visiting me with something hateful and making me gulp down the bitter water of his bile! وَأَضْمَرَ أَنْ يَسُومَنِي الْمَكْرُوهَ وَيُجَرِّ عَنِّي زُعَافَ مَرَارَتِهِ ، 
So Thou looked my God, at my weakness in bearing oppressive burdens, فَنَظَرْتَ يا إلهِيْ إلَى ضَعْفِي عَنِ احْتِمَـالِ الْفَـوَادِحِ ، 
my inability to gain victory over him who aims to war against me, وَعَجْزِي عَنِ الانْتِصَارِ مِمَّنْ قَصَدَنِيْ بِمُحَارَبَتِهِ، 
and my being alone before the great numbers of him who is hostile toward me وَوَحْدَتِي فِي كَثِيرِ عَدَدِ مَنْ نَاوَانِيْ 
and lies in wait for me with an affliction about which I have not thought. وَأَرْصَدَ لِيْ بِالْبَلاءِ فِيمَا لَمْ أُعْمِلْ فِيهِ فِكْرِي، 
Thou set out at once to help me فَابْتَدَأْتَنِي بِنَصْرِكَ، 
and Thou braced up my back! وَشَدَدْتَ أَزْرِي بِقُوَّتِكَ، 
Thou blunted for me his blade, ثُمَّ فَلَلْتَ لِيَ حَدَّهُ، 
made him, after a great multitude, solitary, وَصَيَّرْتَهُ مِنْ بَعْدِ جَمْع عَدِيْد وَحْدَهُ، 
raised up my heel over him, وَأَعْلَيْتَ كَعْبِي عَلَيْهِ، 
and turned back upon him what he had pointed straight. وَجَعَلْتَ مَا سَدَّدَهُ مَرْدُوداً عَلَيْهِ، 
So Thou sent him back, his rage not calmed, فَرَدَدْتَهُ لَمْ يَشْفِ غَيْظَهُ، 
his burning thirst not quenched! وَلَمْ يَسْكُنْ غَلِيلُهُ، 
Biting his fingers, قَدْ عَضَّ عَلَى شَوَاهُ، 
he turned his back in flight, his columns having been of no use. وَأَدْبَرَ مُوَلِّياً قَدْ أَخْلَفَتَ سَرَاياهُ. 
How many an oppressor has oppressed me with his tricks, وَكَمْ مِنْ باغ بَغانِيْ بِمَكَائِدِهِ، 
set up for me the net of his snares, وَنَصَبَ لِيْ شَرَكَ مَصَائِدِهِ، 
appointed over me the inspection of his regard, وَوَكَّلَ بِيْ تَفَقُّدَ رِعَايَتِهِ، 
and lay in ambush for me, the lying in ambush of a predator for its game, وَأَظْبَأَ إلَيَّ إظْبَآءَ السَّبُعِ لِطَرِيْدَتِهِ، 
waiting to take advantage of its prey, انْتِظَـاراً لانْتِهَازِ الْفُرْصَةِ لِفَرِيسَتِهِ، 
while he showed me the smile of the flatterer وَهُوَ يُظْهِرُ لِيْ بَشَاشَةَ المَلَقِ، 
and looked at me with the intensity of fury! وَيَنْظُـرُنِي عَلَى شِدَّةِ الْحَنَقِ، 
So when Thou saw, my God, (blessed art Thou and high exalted) the depravity of his secret thoughts فَلَمَّا رَأَيْتَ يَا إلهِي تَبَارَكْتَ وَتَعَالَيْتَ دَغَلْ سَرِيرَتِهِ، 
and the ugliness of what he harboured, Thou threw him on his head into his own pitfall وَقُبْحَ مَا انْطَوى عَلَيْهِ، أَرْكَسْتَهُ لاُِمِّ رَأْسِهِ فِي زُبْيَتِهِ، 
and dumped him into the hole of his own digging. وَرَدَدْتَهُ فِي مَهْوى حُفْرَتِهِ، 
So he was brought down low, after his overbearing, by the nooses of his own snare, فَانْقَمَعَ بَعْدَ اسْتِطَالَتِهِ ذَلِيلاً فِي رِبَقِ حِبالتِهِ 
wherein he had thought he would see me; الَّتِي كَانَ يُقَدِّرُ أَنْ يَرَانِي فِيهَا، 
and what came down upon his courtyard - had it not been for Thy mercy - was on the point of coming down upon me! وَقَدْ كَادَ أَنْ يَحُلَّ بِيْ لَوْلاَ رَحْمَتُكَ مَا حَلَّ بِسَاحَتِهِ. 
How many an evier has choked upon me in his agony, وَكَمْ مِنْ حَاسِد قَدْ شَرِقَ بِي بِغُصَّتِهِ، 
fumed over me in his rage, cut me with the edge of his tongue, وَشَجِيَ مِنِّي بِغَيْظِهِ، وَسَلَقَنِي بِحَدِّ لِسَانِهِ، 
showed malice toward me by accusing me of his own faults, وَوَحَرَنِي بِقَرْفِ عُيُوبِهِ، 
made my good repute the target of his shots, وَجَعَلَ عِرْضِيْ غَرَضاً لِمَرَامِيهِ، 
collared me with his own constant defects, وَقَلَّدَنِي خِلاَلاً لَمْ تَزَلْ فِيهِ، 
showed malice toward me with his trickery, and aimed at me with his tricks! وَوَحَرنِي بِكَيْدِهِ، وَقَصَدَنِي بِمَكِيدَتِهِ، 
So I called upon Thee, my God, seeking aid from Thee, فَنَادَيْتُكَ يَا إلهِي مُسْتَغِيْثاً بِكَ، 
trusting in the speed of Thy response, وَاثِقاً بِسُرْعَةِ إجَابَتِكَ، 
knowing that he who seeks haven in the shadow of Thy wing will not be mistreated, عَالِماً أَنَّهُ لاَ يُضْطَهَدُ مَنْ آوى إلَى ظِلِّ كَنَفِكَ، 
and he who seeks asylum in the stronghold of Thy victory will not be frightened. وَلاَ يَفْزَعُ مَنْ لَجَأَ إلَى مَعْقِل انْتِصَارِكَ، 
So Thou fortified me against his severity through Thy power. فَحَصَّنْتَنِي مِنْ بَأْسِهِ بِقُدْرَتِكَ. 
How many a cloud of detested things Thou hast dispelled from me, وَكَمْ مِنْ سَحَائِبِ مَكْرُوه جَلَّيْتَهَا عَنِّي، 
a cloud of favour Thou hast made rain down upon me, وَسَحَائِبِ نِعَم أَمْطَرْتَهَا عَلَيَّ، 
a stream of mercy Thou hast let flow, وَجَدَاوِلِ رَحْمَة نَشَرْتَهَا، 
a well-being in which Thou hast clothed me, an eye of mishap Thou hast blinded, وَعَافِيَة أَلْبَسْتَهَا، وَأَعْيُنِ أَحدَاث طَمَسْتَهَا، 
and a wrap of distress Thou hast removed! وَغَواشي كُرُبَات كَشَفْتَهَا، 
How many a good opinion Thou hast verified, a destitution Thou hast redressed, وَكَمْ مِنْ ظَنٍّ حَسَن حَقَّقْتَ، وَعَدَم جَبَرْتَ، 
an infirmity Thou hast restored to health, and a misery Thou hast transformed! وَصَرْعَة أَنْعَشْتَ وَمَسْكَنَة، حَوَّلْتَ، 
All of that was favour and graciousness from Thee, كُلُّ ذَلِكَ إنْعَامَاً وَتَطَوُّلاً مِنْكَ، 
and in all of it I was occupied with acts of disobeying Thee. وَفِي جَمِيعِهِ انْهِمَاكاً مِنِّي عَلَى مَعَاصِيْكَ، 
My evildoing did not hinder Thee from completing Thy beneficence, لَمْ تَمْنَعْكَ إساءَتِي عَنْ إتْمَامِ إحْسَانِكَ، 
nor was I stopped from committing acts displeasing to Thee. وَلاَ حَجَرَنِي ذالِكَ عَنِ ارْتِكَابِ مَسَاخِطِكَ، 
Thou art not questioned as to what Thou dost! Thou wert asked, and Thou bestowed. لاَ تُسْأَلُ عَمَّا تَفْعَلُ، وَلَقَدْ سُئِلْتَ فَأَعْطَيْتَ، 
Thou wert not asked, and Thou began. Thy bounty was requested, and Thou didst not skimp. وَلَمْ تُسْأَلْ فابْتَدَأْتَ، وَاسْتُمِيحَ فَضْلُكَ فَمَا أَكْدَيْتَ، 
Thou refused, my Master, everything but beneficence, أَبَيْتَ يَا مَوْلاَيَ إلاَّ إحْسَانَـاً 
kindness, graciousness, and favour, وَامْتِنَاناً وَتَطوُّلاً وَإنْعَامـاً ، 
and I refused everything but plunging into what Thou hast made unlawful, وَأَبَيْتُ إلاَّ تَقَحُّماً لِحُرُماتِكَ، 
transgressing Thy bounds, and paying no heed to Thy threat! وَتَعَدِّياً لِحُدُودِكَ، وَغَفْلَةً عَنْ وَعِيدِكَ. 
So Thine is the praise, my God, the All-powerful who is not overcome, فَلَكَ الْحَمْدُ إلهِي مِنْ مُقْتَدِر لاَ يُغْلَبُ، 
and the Possessor of patient waiting who does not hurry! وَذِي أَناة لاَ تَعْجَلُ. 
This is the station of one who confesses to lavishness of favours, هَذَا مَقَامُ مَنِ اعْتَرَفَ بِسبوغِ النِّعَمِ، 
counters them with shortcomings, and bears witness to his own negligence. وَقَابَلَهَا بِالتَّقْصِيرِ، وَشَهِدَ عَلَى نَفْسِهِ بِالتَّضْيِيْعِ. 
O God, so I seek nearness to Thee through the elevated rank of Muhammad and the radiant degree of 'Ali, أللَّهُمَّ فَإنِّي أَتَقَرَّبُ إلَيْكَ بِالْمُحَمَّدِيَّةِ الرَّفِيعَةِ، 
and I turn to Thee through them so that Thou wilt give me وَالْعَلَوِيَّةِ الْبَيْضَآءِ، وَأَتَـوَجَّهُ إلَيْكَ بِهِمَا، 
refuge from the evil of [so and so], تُعِيذَنِيْ مِنْ شَرِّ [كَذَا وَكَذَا] فَإنَّ ذَالِكَ 
for that will not constrain Thee in Thy wealth, لا يَضِيْقُ عَلَيْكَ فِي وُجْدِكَ، 
nor trouble Thee in Thy power, وَلاَ يَتَكَأدُّكَ فِي قُدْرَتِكَ، 
and Thou art powerful over everything! وَأَنْتَ عَلَى كُلِّ شَيْء قَدِيرٌ، 
So give me, my God, by Thy mercy and Thy lasting bestowal of success, فَهَبْ لِي يا إلهِي مِنْ رَحْمَتِكَ وَدَوَامِ تَوْفِيقِكَ، 
that which I may take as a ladder with which to climb to Thy good pleasure مَا أَتَّخِذُهُ سُلَّماً أَعْرُجُ بِهِ إلى رِضْوَانِكَ، 
and be secure from Thy punishment, O Most merciful of the merciful! وَآمَنُ بِهِ مِنْ عِقَابِكَ، يَا أَرْحَمَ الرَّاحِمِينَ. 

 
