I showed sincerity by cutting myself off from everything but Thee. اللَهُمَّ إنِّي أَخْلَصْتُ بِانْقِطَاعِي إلَيْكَ، 
I approached Thee with my whole self. وَأَقْبَلْتُ بِكُلِّي عَلَيْـكَ، 
I averted my face from everyone who needs Thy support. وَصَـرَفْتُ وَجْهِي عَمَّنْ يَحْتَاجُ إلَى رِفْدِكَ، 
I ceased to ask from any who cannot do without Thy bounty. وَقَلَبْتُ مَسْأَلَتِي عَمَّنْ لَمْ يَسْتَغْنِ عَنْ فَضْلِكَ، 
I saw that the needy who seeks from the needy وَرَأَيْتُ أَنَّ طَلَبَ الْمُحْتَاجِ إلَى الْمُحْتَاجِ 
is foolish in his opinion, and misguided in his intellect. سَفَهٌ مِنْ رَأيِهِ وَضَلَّةٌ مِنْ عَقْلِهِ، 
How many people have I seen, my God, فَكَمْ قَدْ رَأَيْتُ يَـا إلهِيْ 
who sought exaltation through other than Thee and were abased, مِنْ أُناس طَلَبُوا الْعِزَّ بِغَيْرِكَ فَذَلُّوا، 
who wanted wealth from someone else and became poor, وَرَامُوا الثَّرْوَةَ مِنْ سِوَاكَ فَافْتَقَرُوا، 
who tried to rise high and fell down low! وَحَاوَلُوا الارْتِفَاعَ فَاتَّضَعُوا، 
Observing the likes of them corrects a prudent man; فَصحَّ بِمُعَايَنَةِ أَمْثَالِهِمْ حَازِمٌ 
his taking heed gives him success; وَفَّقَهُ اعْتِبَارُهُ 
his choosing the best guides him to the path of right. وَأَرْشَدَهُ إلَى طَرِيقِ صَوَابِهِ بِاخْتِبَارِهِ 
So Thou, my Master, فَأَنْتَ يَا مَوْلايَ 
art the object of my asking to the exclusion of all those who are asked دُونَ كُلِّ مَسْؤُول مَوْضِعُ مَسْأَلَتِي 
and the patron of my need to the exclusion of all those from whom requests are made. وَدُونَ كُلِّ مَطْلُوب إلَيْهِ وَلِيُّ حَاجَتِي. 
Thou art singled out for my call before all who are called; الْمَخْصُوصُ قَبْلَ كُلِّ مَدْعُوٍّ بِدَعْوَتِي 
none is associated with Thee in my hope, لاَ يَشْرَكُكَ أَحَدٌ فِي رَجَائِي، 
none comes along with Thee in my supplication, وَلاَ يَتَّفِقُ أَحَدٌ مَعَكَ فِي دُعَائِي، 
nor does any join with Thee within it, for to Thee is my appeal. وَلاَ يَنْظِمُهُ وَإيَّاكَ نِدَائِي 
To Thee, my God, belongs the Unity of number, لَكَ يَا إلهِي وَحْدَانِيَّةُ الْعَدَدِ، 
the property of eternal power, وَمَلَكَةُ الْقُدْرَةِ الصَّمَدِ، 
the excellence of force and strength, وَفَضِيلَةُ الْحَوْلِ وَالْقُوَّةِ، 
the degree of sublimity and elevation. وَدَرَجَةُ الْعُلُوِّ وَالرِّفْعَةِ 
Everyone other than Thee is the object of compassion in his lifetime, وَمَنْ سِوَاكَ مَرْحُومٌ فِي عُمْرِهِ، 
overcome in his affair, overwhelmed in his situation, مَغْلُوبٌ عَلَى أَمْرِهِ، مَقْهُورٌ عَلَى شَأنِهِ، 
diverse in states, constantly changing in attributes. مُخْتَلِفُ الْحَالاَتِ، مُتَنَقِّلٌ فِي الصِّفَاتِ. 
So Thou art high exalted above likenesses and opposites, فَتَعَالَيْتَ عَنِ الأشْبَاهِ وَالاضْـدَادِ، 
proudly magnified beyond similitudes and rivals! وَتَكَبَّـرْتَ عَنِ الأمْثَـالِ وَالأنْدَادِ، 
Glory be to Thee! There is no God but Thou. فَسُبْحَانَكَ لاَ إلهَ إلاَّ أَنْتَ. 

