O He remembering whom brings honour to those who remember! يا مَنْ ذِكْرُهُ شَرَفٌ لِلذَّاكِرِينَ 
O He thanking whom brings triumph to those who give thanks! وَيَا مَنْ شُكْرُهُ فَوْزٌ لِلشَّاكِرِينَ، 
O He obeying whom brings deliverance to those who obey! وَيَا مَنْ طَاعَتُهُ نَجَاةٌ لِلْمُطِيعِينَ 
Bless Muhammad and his Household, صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
and divert our hearts through remembering Thee from every act of remembrance, وَاشْغَلْ قُلُوبَنَا بِذِكْرِكَ عَنْ كُلِّ ذِكْر، 
our tongues through thanking Thee from every act of thanksgiving, وَأَلْسِنَتَنَا بِشُكْرِكَ عَنْ كُلِّ شُكْر 
our limbs through obeying Thee from every act of obedience! وَجَوَارِحَنَا بِطَاعَتِكَ عَنْ كُلِّ طَاعَة. 
If Thou hast ordained for us idleness from these occupations, make it an idleness of safety, فَإنْ قَدَّرْتَ لَنَا فَرَاغاً مِنْ شُغُل فَاجْعَلْهُ فَرَاغَ سَلاَمَة 
within which no ill consequence visits us or weariness overtakes us! لا تُدْرِكُنَا فِيهِ تَبِعَةٌ وَلاَ تَلْحَقُنَا فِيهِ سَاَمَةٌ 
Then the writers of evil deeds may depart from us with a page empty of the mention of our evil deeds, حَتَّى يَنْصَرِفَ عَنَّا كُتَّابُ السَّيِّئَاتِ بِصَحِيفَة خَالِيَة مِنْ ذِكْرِ سَيِّئاتِنَا 
and the writers of good deeds may turn away from us َو يَتَوَلّى كُتَّابُ الْحَسَنَاتِ عَنَّا 
happy with the good deeds of ours which they have written. مَسْرُورِينَ بِمَا كَتَبُوا مِنْ حَسَنَاتِنَا . 
And when the days of our life have passed by, the terms of our lifetimes have elapsed, وَإذَا انْقَضَتْ أَيَّامُ حَيَاتِنَـا وَتَصَرَّمَتْ مُـدَدُ أَعْمَارِنَـا، 
and Thy call, which must come and be answered, summons us forth, وَاسْتَحْضَرَتْنَا دَعْوَتُكَ الَّتِي لاَ بُدَّ مِنْهَا وَمِنْ إجَابَتِهَا ، 
then bless Muhammad and his Household فَصَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ، 
and make the outcome of what the writers of our works count against us وَاجْعَلْ خِتَامَ مَا تُحْصِي عَلَيْنَا كَتَبَةُ أَعْمَالِنَا 
an accepted repentance, which afterwards gave us no rest in a sin that we committed تَوْبَةً مَقْبُولَةً لا تُوقِفُنَا بَعْدَهَا عَلَى ذَنْب اجْتَرَحْنَاهُ، 
or an act of disobedience that we performed! وَلاَ مَعْصِيَة اقْتَرَفْنَاهَا، 
Remove not from us any covering with which Thou hast covered over the heads of the witnesses وَلاَ تَكْشِفْ عَنَّا سِتْراً سَتَرْتَهُ عَلَى رُؤُوسِ الأشْهَادِ 
on the day when the records of Thy servants are tried! يَوْمَ تَبْلُو أَخْبَارَ عِبَادِكَ 
Verily Thou art compassionate to him who supplicates Thee, the responder to him who calls upon Thee! إنَّكَ رَحِيمٌ بِمَنْ دَعَاكَ، وَمُسْتَجيبٌ لِمَنْ نَادَاكَ . 
