O He the wonders of whose mightiness will never end! يامَنْ لاتَنْقَضِي عَجَائِبُ عَظَمَتِهِ، 
Bless Muhammad and his Household صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ، 
and prevent us from deviation concerning Thy mightiness! وَاحْجُبْنَا عَنِ الالْحَادِ فِي عَظَمَتِكَ. 
O He the term of whose kingdom will never cease! وَيَا مَنْ لاَ تَنْتَهِي مُدَّةُ مُلْكِهِ، 
Bless Muhammad and his Household صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ، 
and release our necks from Thy vengeance! وَأَعْتِقْ رِقَابَنَا مِنْ نَقِمَتِك. 
O He the treasuries of whose mercy will never be exhausted! وَيَا مَنْ لا تَفْنَى خَزَائِنُ رَحْمَتِهِ، 
Bless Muhammad and his Household صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ، 
and appoint for us a portion of Thy mercy! وَاجْعَلْ لَنا نَصِيباً فِي رَحْمَتِكَ. 
O He whom eyes fall short of seeing! وَيَا مَنْ تَنْقَطِعُ دُونَ رُؤْيَتِهِ الابْصَارُ، 
Bless Muhammad and his Household صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ، 
and bring us close to Thy nearness! وَأَدْنِنَا إلَى قُرْبِكَ. 
O He before whose greatness all great things are small! وَيَا مَنْ تَصْغُرُ عِنْدَ خَطَرِهِ الاخْطَارُ، 
Bless Muhammad and his Household صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ، 
and give us honour with Thee! وَكَرِّمْنَا عَلَيْكَ. 
O He to whom all hidden tidings are manifest! وَيَا مَنْ تَظْهَرُ عِنْدَهُ بَوَاطِنُ الاخْبَارِ، 
Bless Muhammad and his Household صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ، 
and expose us not before Thee! وَلاَ تَفْضَحْنَا لَدَيْكَ. 
O God, remove our need for the gifts of the givers through Thy gift, اللَّهُمَّ أَغْنِنَا عَنْ هِبَةِ الْوَهّابِيْنَ بِهِبَتِكَ، 
spare us the loneliness of those who break off through Thy joining, وَاكْفِنَا وَحْشَةَ الْقَاطِعِين بِصِلَتِكَ ، 
that we may beseech no one along with Thy free giving, حَتّى لا نَرْغَبَ إلَى أحَد مَعَ بَذْلِكَ، 
that we may feel lonely at no one's absence along with Thy bounty! وَلاَ نَسْتَوْحِشَ مِنْ أحَد مَعَ فَضْلِكَ 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household, اللهُمَّ فَصَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
scheme for us, not against us, وَكِدْ لَنَا وَلا تَكِدْ عَلَيْنَا، 
devise to our benefit, not to our loss, وَامْكُرْ لَنَا وَلاَ تَمْكُرْ بنَا، 
give the turn to prevail to us, not to others! وَأدِلْ لَنَا وَلاَ تُدِلْ مِنّا. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household, اللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ، 
protect us from Thyself, safeguard us through Thyself, guide us to Thyself, وَقِنَا مِنْكَ، وَاحْفَظْنَا بِكَ، وَاهْدِنَا إلَيْكَ، 
and take us not far from Thyself! he whom Thou protectest stays safe, وَلاَ تُبَاعِدْنَا عَنْكَ إنّ مَنْ تَقِهِ يَسْلَمْ، 
he whom Thou guidest knows, and he whom Thou bringest near Thyself takes the spoils. وَمَنْ تَهْدِهِ يَعْلَمْ، وَمَنْ تُقَرِّبُهُ إلَيْكَ يَغْنَمْ. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household الّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
and spare us the cutting edge of time's turning changes, وَاكْفِنَا حَدَّ نَوائِبِ الزَّمَانِ، 
the evil of Satan's snares, and the bitterness of the sovereign's aggression! وَشَرَّ مَصَائِدِ الشّيطانِ وَمَرَارَةَ صَوْلَةِ السُّلْطَانِ. 
O God, the spared are spared only through the bounty اللّهُمَّ إنَّما يَكْتَفِي الْمُكْتَفُونَ بِفَضْـل 
of Thy strength, so bless Muhammad and his Household, and spare us! قُوَّتِكَ فَصَلِّ عَلَى محَمَّد وَآلِهِ ،وَاكْفِنَا 
The givers give only through the bounty of Thy wealth, وَإنَّمَا يُعْطِي الْمُعْطُونَ مِنْ فَضْلِ جِدَتِكَ 
so bless Muhammad and his Household and give to us! فَصَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ و اعطنا 
The guided are guided only by the light of Thy face, وَإنمَا يَهْتَدِي الْمُهْتَدُونَ بِنُورِ وَجْهِكَ 
so bless Muhammad and his Household and guide us! فَصَلِّ عَلَى محمّد وَآلِهِ وَاهْدِنَا . 
O God, he whom Thou befriendest will not be injured by the abandonment of the abandoners, اللّهُمَّ إنّكَ مَنْ وَالَيْتَ لَمْ يَضْرُرْهُ خِذْلانُ الْخَاذِلِينَ، 
he to whom Thou givest will not be diminished by the withholding of the withholders, وَمَنْ أعْطَيْتَ لَمْ يَنْقُصْهُ مَنْـعُ الْمَانِعِينَ، 
he whom Thou guidest will not be misled by the misguidance of the misguiders. وَمَنْ هَدَيْتَ لَمْ يُغْوِهِ إضْلاَلُ المُضِلِّيْنَ. 
So bless Muhammad and his Household, defend us from Thy servants فَصَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ، وَامْنَعْنَا بِعِزَّكَ، مِنْ عِبَادِكَ 
through Thy might, free us from need for other than Thee through Thy support, وَأغْنِنَا عَنْ غَيْرِكَ بِإرْفَادِكَ 
and make us travel the path of the Truth through Thy right guidance! وَاسْلُكْ بِنَا سَبِيلَ الْحَقِّ بِـإرْشَادِكَ. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household and put the soundness of our hearts اللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِـهِ وَاجْعَلْ سَلاَمَةَ قُلُوبِنَا 
into the remembrance of Thy mightiness, the idleness of our bodies into giving thanks for Thy favour, فِي ذِكْرِ عَظَمَتِكَ وَفَرَاغَ أبْدَانِنَا فِي شُكْرِ نِعْمَتِكَ 
and the flow of our tongues into the description of Thy kindness! وَانْطِلاَقَ أَلْسِنَتِنَا فِي وَصْفِ مِنَّتِكَ. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household أللَهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
and make us one of Thy summoners who summon to Thee, وَاجْعَلْنَا مِنْ دُعَاتِكَ الدّاعِينَ إلَيْكَ 
Thy guiders who direct to Thee, وَهُدَاتِكَ الدَّالّينَ عَلَيْكَ 
and Thy special friends whom Thou hast singled out! وَمِنْ خَاصَّتِكَ الْخَاصِّينَ لَدَيْكَ 
O Most Merciful of the merciful! يَا أرْحَمَ ألرَّاحِمِينَ . 
