O God, Thou hast charged me concerning myself with that which belongs more to Thee than to me. أَللَّهُمَّ إنَّكَ كَلَّفْتَنِي مِنْ نَفْسِي مَا أَنْتَ أَمْلَكُ بِهِ مِنِّي، 
Thy power over it and over me is greater than my power, وَقُدْرَتُكَ عَلَيْهِ وَعَلَيَّ أَغْلَبُ مِنْ قُدْرَتِي، 
so give me in myself what will make Thee pleased with me فَأَعْطِنِي مِنْ نَفْسِي مَا يُرْضِيْكَ عَنِّي، 
and take for Thyself Thy good pleasure in my self's well-being! وَخُذْ لِنَفْسِكَ رِضَاهَا مِنْ نَفْسِي فِي عَافِيَة. 
O God, I have no endurance for effort, no patience in affliction, أللَّهُمَّ لاَ طَاقَةَ لِي بِالجَهْدِ ، وَلاَ صَبْرَ لِي عَلَى البَلاَءِ، 
no strength to bear poverty. So forbid me not my provision وَلاَ قُوَّةَ لِي عَلَى الْفَقْرِ، فَلاَ تَحْظُرْ عَلَيَّ رِزْقِي، 
and entrust me not to Thy creatures, but take care of my need alone and Thyself attend to sufficing me! وَلاَ تَكِلْنِيْ إلَى خَلْقِكَ بَلْ تَفَرَّدْ بِحَاجَتِي، وَتَولَّ كِفَايَتِي، 
Look upon me and look after me in all my affairs, وَانْظُرْ إلَيَّ وَانْظُرْ لِي فِي جَمِيْعِ اُمُورِي، 
for if Thou entrustest me to myself, I will be incapable before myself فَإنَّكَ إنْ وَكَلْتَنِي إلَى نَفْسِي عَجَزْتُ عَنْهَا، 
and fail to undertake that in which my best interest lies. وَلَمْ اُقِمْ مَا فِيهِ مَصْلَحَتُهَا، 
If Thou entrustest me to Thy creatures, they will frown upon me, وَإنْ وَكَلْتَنِي إلَى خَلْقِكَ تَجَهَّمُونِي، 
and if Thou makest me resort to my kinsfolk, they will refuse to give to me; وَإنْ أَلْجَأتَنِيْ إلَى قَرَابَتِي حَرَمُونِي، 
if they give, they will give little and in bad temper, وَإنْ أَعْطَوْا أَعْطَوْا قَلِيْلاً نَكِداً، 
making me feel long obliged and blaming me much. وَمَنُّوا عَلَيَّ طَوِيلاً وَذَمُّوا كَثِيراً. 
So through Thy bounty, O God, free me from need, through Thy mightiness, lift me up, فَبِفَضْلِكَ أللَّهُمَّ فَأَغْنِنِي، وَبِعَظَمَتِكَ فَانْعَشنِي، 
through Thy boundless plenty, open my hand, and with that which is with Thee, suffice me! وَبِسَعَتِكَ فَابْسُطْ يَدِي، وَبِمَا عِنْدَكَ فَاكْفِنِي. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household, أللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ، 
rid me of envy, encircle me against sins, وَخَلِّصْنِي مِنَ الْحَسَدِ، وَاحْصُرْنِي عَن الذُّنُوبِ، 
make me abstain from things unlawful, give me not the boldness of disobedient acts, وَوَرِّعْنِي عَنِ الْمَحَارِمِ، وَلا تُجَرِّئْنِي عَلَى الْمَعَاصِي، 
assign me love for that which is with Thee and satisfaction with that which comes to me from Thee, وَاجْعَلْ هَوايَ عِنْدَكَ، وَرِضَايَ فِيمَا يَرِدُ عَلَيَّ مِنْكَ، 
bless me in that which Thou providest me, that which Thou conferrest upon me, وَبَارِكْ لِي فِيْمَا رَزَقْتَنِي، وَفِيمَا خَوَّلْتَنِي، 
and that through which Thou favourest me, and make me in all my states وَفِيمَا أَنْعَمْتَ بِهِ عَلَيَّ، وَاجْعَلْنِي فِي كُلِّ حَالاَتِي 
safeguarded, watched, covered, defended, given refuge, and granted sanctuary! مَحْفُوظَاً مَكْلُوءاً مَسْتُوراً مَمْنُوعاً مُعَاذاً مُجَاراً. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household أللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
and let me accomplish everything which Thou hast enjoined upon me or made obligatory for me toward Thee, in one of the ways of Thy obedience, وَاقْضِ عَنِّي كُلّ مَا أَلْزَمْتَنِيهِ وَفَرَضْتَهُ عَلَيَّ لَكَ فِي وَجْه مِنْ وُجُوهِ طَاعَتِكَ، 
or toward one of Thy creatures, though my body be too frail for that, my strength too feeble, أَوْ لِخَلْق مِنْ خَلْقِكَ وَإنْ ضَعُفَ عَنْ ذَلِكَ بَدَنِي، وَوَهَنَتْ عَنْهُ قُـوَّتِي، 
my power not able to reach it, and my possessions and what my hand owns not encompass it, and whether I have remembered it or forgotten it. وَلَمْ تَنَلْهُ مَقْدِرَتِي، وَلَمْ يَسَعْهُ مَالِي وَلاَ ذَاتُ يَدِي، ذَكَرْتُهُ أَوْ نَسِيتُهُ 
It, my Lord, is among that which Thou hast counted against me while I have been heedless of it in myself. هُوَ يَا رَبِّ مِمَّا قَدْ أَحْصَيْتَهُ عَلَيَّ وَأَغْفَلْتُهُ أَنَا مِنْ نَفْسِي، 
Let me perform it through Thy plentiful giving and the abundance which is with Thee فَأَدِّهِ عَنِّي مِنْ جَزِيْلِ عَطِيَّتِكَ وَكَثِيرِ مَا عِنْدَكَ، 
- for Thou art Boundless, Generous - so that nothing of it may remain against me, فَإنَّكَ وَاسِعٌ كَرِيمٌ حَتَّى لاَ يَبْقَى عَلَيَّ شَيْ مِنْهُ 
lest Thou wouldst wish to settle accounts for it from my good deeds تُرِيدُ أَنْ تُقَاصَّنِي بِهِ مِنْ حَسَنَاتِي، 
or to compound my evil deeds on the day I meet Thee, my Lord! أَوْ تُضَاعِفَ بِهِ مِنْ سَيِّئاتِي يَوْمَ أَلْقَاكَ يَا رَبِّ. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household أَللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
and provide me with desire to serve Thee for the sake of my state in the hereafter, وَارْزُقْنِي الرَّغْبَةَ فِي الْعَمَـلِ لَكَ لآخِـرَتِي، 
such that I know the truthfulness of that [desire] in my heart, حَتَّى أَعْرِفَ صِدْقَ ذلِكَ مِنْ قَلْبِي، 
be dominated by renunciation while in this world, وَحَتَّى يَكُونَ الْغَالِبُ عَلَيَّ الزُّهْدُ فِي دُنْيَايَ، 
do good deeds with yearning, وَحَتَّى أَعْمَلَ الْحَسَنَاتِ شَوْقاً، 
and remain secure from evil deeds in fright and fear! وَآمَنَ مِنَ السَّيِّئاتِ فَرَقاً وَخَوْفاً، 
And give me 'a light whereby I may walk among the people' (ref.6:122), be guided in the shadows, وَهَبْ لِي نُوراً أَمْشِي بِهِ فِي النَّاسِ، وَأَهْتَدِي بِهِ فِي الظُّلُماتِ، 
and seek illumination in doubt and uncertainty! وَأَسْتَضِيءُ بِهِ مِنَ الشَّكِّ وَالشُّبُهَـاتِ . 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household اللّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
and provide me with fear of the threatened gloom وَارْزُقْنِي خَوْفَ غَمِّ الْوَعِيْـدِ، 
and yearning for the promised reward, such that I may find the pleasure of that for which I supplicate Thee وَشَوْقَ ثَوَابِ الْمَوْعُودِ حَتَّى أَجِدَ لَذَّةَ مَا أَدْعُوكَ لَهُ، 
and the sorrow of that from which I seek sanctuary in Thee! وَكَأْبَةَ مَا أَسْتَجِيرُ بِكَ مِنْهُ. 
O God, Thou knowest what will set my affairs right in this world and the next, أللَّهُمَّ قَـدْ تَعْلَمُ مَا يُصْلِحُنِي مِنْ أَمْرِ دُنْيَايَ وَآخِـرَتِي، 
so be ever gracious toward my needs! فَكُنْ بِحَوَائِجِيْ حَفِيّاً. 
O God, bless Muhammad and Muhammad's Household أللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِ مُحَمَّد 
and provide me with what is Thy right when I fall short in thanking Thee وَارْزُقْنِي الْحَقَّ عِنْدَ تَقْصِيرِي فِي الشُّكْرِ لَكَ 
for that through which Thou hast favoured me in ease and difficulty, health and sickness, بِمَا أَنْعَمْتَ عَلَيَّ فِي اليُسـرِ وَالْعُسْرِ وَالصِّحَّـةِ وَالسَّقَمِ 
such that I may come to know in myself repose in satisfaction حَتَّى أَتَعَرَّفَ مِنْ نَفْسِي رَوْحَ الرِّضَا 
and serenity of soul in that which Thou hast made incumbent upon me وَطُمَأنِينَةَ النَّفْسِ مِنِّي بِمَا يَجِبُ لَكَ فِيمَا يَحْدُثُ 
in whatever states may occur: fear and security, فِي حَالِ الْخَوْفِ وَالاَمْنِ، 
satisfaction and displeasure, loss and gain! وَالرِّضَا وَالسُّخْطِ، وَالضَّرِّ وَالنَّفْعِ. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household أللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
and provide me with a breast safe from envy, وَارْزُقْنِي سَلاَمَةَ الصَّدْرِ مِنَ الْحَسَدِ 
such that I envy none of Thy creatures and in anything of Thy bounty حَتَّى لاَ أَحْسُدَ أَحَداً مِنْ خَلْقِكَ عَلَى شَيْء مِنْ فَضْلِكَ، 
and such that I see none of Thy favours toward any of Thy creatures وَحَتَّى لاَ أَرى نِعْمَـةً مِنْ نِعَمِـكَ عَلَى أَحَد مِنْ خَلْقِكَ 
in religion or this world, well-being or reverential fear, فِي دِيْن أَوْ دُنْيا، أَوْ عَافِيَة أَوْ تَقْوَى، 
plenty or ease, without hoping for myself better than it أَوْ سَعَة أَوْ رَخاء، إلاّ رَجَوْتُ لِنَفْسِي أَفْضَلَ ذلِكَ، 
through and from Thee alone, who hast no associate! بِكَ وَمِنْكَ وَحْدَكَ لاَ شَرِيكَ لَكَ. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household أللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّـد وَآلِـهِ 
and provide me with caution against offenses وَارْزُقْنِي التَّحَفُّظَ مِن الْخَطَايَا، 
and wariness against slips in this world and the next وَالاحْتِرَاسَ مِنَ الزَّلَلِ فِي الدُّنْيَا وَالآخِرَةِ، 
in the state of satisfaction and wrath, فِي حَالِ الرِّضَا وَالْغَضَبِ، 
such that I may remain indifferent toward that which enters upon me from the two states, حَتَّى أكُونَ بِمَا يَرِدُ عَلَيَّ مِنْهُمَا بِمَنْزِلَة سَوَاء، 
work toward Thy obedience, and prefer it and Thy good pleasure over all else in both friends and enemies. عَامِلاً بِطَاعَتِكَ مُؤْثِراً لِرِضَاكَ عَلَى مَا سِوَاهُمَا فِي الأَوْلِياءِ وَالأعْدَاءِ 
Then my enemy may stay secure from my wrongdoing and injustice حَتّى يَأْمَنَ عَدُوِّي مِنْ ظُلْمِي وَجَوْرِي، 
and my friend may despair of my inclination and the bent of my affection. وَيَيْأَسَ وَلِيِّي مِنْ مَيْلِي وَانْحِطَاطِ هَوَايَ، 
Make me one of those who supplicate Thee with sincerity in ease وَاجْعَلنِي مِمَّنْ يَدْعُوكَ مُخْلِصاً في الرَّخَاءِ 
with the supplication of those who supplicate Thee with sincerity in distress! دُعَـاءَ الْمُخْلِصِينَ الْمُضْطَرِّينَ لَـكَ فِي الدُّعَاءِ 
Verily Thou art Praiseworthy, Glorious. إنَّكَ حَمِيدٌ مَجيدٌ . 

 
