اَللَّهُمَّ إِنِّي طَعْتُكَ فِي حَبِّ ٱلشْيَاءِ إِلَيْكَ
O Allah, I have certainly obeyed You in the most beloved thing to You,
وَهُوَ ٱلتَّوْحِيدُ
which is Your Oneness.
وَلَمْ عْصِكَ فِي بْغَضِ ٱلشْيَاءِ إِلَيْكَ
I have not disobeyed you in the most hateful thing to You,
وَهُوَ ٱلْكُفْرُ
which is atheism.
فَٱغْفِرْ لِي مَا بَيْنَهُمَا
So, (please do) forgive me all that which lies between these two.
يَا مَنْ إِلَيْهِ مَفَرِّي
O He to Whom is my alternative,
آمِنِّي مِمَّا فَزِعْتُ مِنْه إِلَيْكَ
(please do) secure me against that from which I have escaped to You.
اَللَّهُمَّ ٱغْفِرْ لِيَ ٱلْكَثِيرَ مِنْ مَعَاصِيكَ
O Allah, forgive me the many acts of disobedience to You that I have committed
وَٱقْبَلْ مِنِّيَ ٱلْيَسِيرَ مِنْ طَاعَتِكَ
and accept from me the few acts of obedience to You that I have done.
يَا عُدَّتِي دُونَ ٱلْعُدَدِ
O my one and only expedient!
وَيَا رَجَائِي وَٱلْمُعْتَمَدُ
O my Hope and my Reliance!
وَيَا كَهْفِي وَٱلسَّنَدُ
O my Shelter and my Support!
وَيَا وَاحِدُ يَا حَدُ
O One! O One and Only!
يَا قُلْ هُوَ ٱللَّهُ حَدٌ
O “Say: He, Allah, is One.
ٱللَّهُ ٱلصَّمَدُ
Allah is He on Whom all depend.
لَمْ يَلِدْ وَلَمْ يُولَدْ
He begets not, nor is He begotten.
وَلَمْ يَكُنْ لَهُ كُفُواً حَدٌ
And none is like Him.”
سْلُكَ بِحَقِّ مَنِ ٱصْطَفَيْتَهُمْ مِنْ خَلْقِكَ
I pray You, in the name of those whom You had selected from among Your beings
وَلَمْ تَجْعَلْ فِي خَلْقِكَ مِثْلَهُمْ حَداً
after You never created their examples amongst all of Your beings,
نْ تُصَلِّيَ عَلَىٰ مُحَمَّدٍ وَآلِهِ
to bless Muhammad and his Household,
وَتَفْعَلَ بِي مَا نْتَ هْلُهُ
and to do to me all that which suits You.
اَللَّهُمَّ إِنِّي سْلُكَ بِٱلْوَحْدَانِيَّةِ ٱلْكُبْرَىٰ
O Allah, I verily pray You in the name of the Grand Oneness,
وَٱلْمُحَمَّدِيَّةِ ٱلْبَيْضَاءِ
the White Mohammedanism,
وَٱلْعَلَوِيَّةِ ٱلْعُلْيَا
the Elevated `Alawism,
وَبِجَميعِ مَا ٱحْتَجَجْتَ بِهِ عَلَىٰ عِبَادِكَ
in the name of all that which You have used as arguments against Your servants,
وَبِٱلاِسْمِ ٱلَّذِي حَجَبْتَهُ عَنْ خَلْقِكَ
and in the Name that You have concealed from Your creatures
فَلَمْ يَخْرُجْ مِنْكَ إِلاَّ إِلَيْكَ
and thus it has never left You save that under Your permission
صَلِّ عَلَىٰ مُحَمِّدٍ وَآلِهِ
(I pray You by all these) to send blessings to Mu¦ammad and his Household,
وَٱجْعَلْ لِي مِنْ مْرِي فَرَجاً ومَخرَجاً
make for me relief and exit as regarding my affair,
وَٱرْزُقْنِي مِنْ حَيْثُ حْتَسِبُ
and grant me sustenance from whence I expect
وَمِنْ حَيْثُ لاَ حْتَسِبُ
and from whence I do not expect.
إِنَّكَ تَرْزُقُ مَنْ تَشَاءُ بِغَيْرِ حِسَاب
Verily, You give sustenance to whom You please without measure.
