O obedient creature, speedy and untiring, أيُّهَا الْخَلْقُ الْمُطِيعُ الدَّائِبُ السَّرِيعُ 
frequenter of the mansions of determination, الْمُتَرَدِّدُ فِي مَنَازِلِ التَّقْدِيْرِ، 
moving about in the sphere of governance! الْمُتَصَرِّفُ فِي فَلَكِ التَّدْبِيرِ، 
I have faith in Him who lights up darknesses through thee, آمَنْتُ بِمَنْ نَوَّرَ بِكَ الظُّلَمَ، 
illuminates jet-black shadows by thee, وَأَوْضَحَ بِـكَ الْبُهَمَ، 
appointed thee one of the signs of His kingdom وَجَعَلَكَ آيَةً مِنْ آياتِ مُلْكِهِ، 
and one of the marks of His authority, وَعَلاَمَةً مِنْ عَلاَمَاتِ سُلْطَانِهِ، 
and humbled thee through increase and decrease, وَامْتَهَنَكَ بِالزِّيادَةِ وَالنُّقْصَانِ، 
rising and setting, illumination and eclipse. وَالطُّلُوعِ وَالأُفُولِ، وَالإِنارَةِ وَالْكُسُوفِ، 
In all of this thou art obedient to Him, prompt toward His will. فِي كُلِّ ذلِكَ أَنْتَ لَهُ مُطِيعٌ وَإلى إرَادَتِهِ سَرِيعٌ، 
Glory be to Him! How wonderful is what He has arranged in thy situation! سُبْحَانَهُ مَا أَعْجَبَ مَا دَبَّرَ فِيْ أَمْرِكَ، 
How subtle what He has made for thy task! وَأَلْطَفَ مَا صَنعَ فِي شَأْنِكَ، 
He has made thee the key to a new month for a new situation. جَعَلَكَ مِفْتَاحَ شَهْر حَادِث لأَِمْر حادِث، 
So I ask God, my Lord and thy Lord, فَأَسْأَلُ اللهَ رَبِّي وَرَبَّكَ 
my Creator and thy Creator, my Determiner and thy Determiner, وَخَالِقِي وَخَالِقَكَ وَمُقَدِّرِي وَمُقَدِّرَكَ 
my Form-giver and thy Form-giver, وَمُصَوِّرِي وَمُصَوِّرَكَ 
that He bless Muhammad and his Household أَنْ يُصَلِّي عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ، 
and appoint thee a crescent of blessings not effaced by days وَأَنْ يَجْعَلَكَ هِلاَلَ بَرَكَة لاَ تَمْحَقُهَا الأيَّامُ، 
and of purity not defiled by sins; وَطَهَارَة لاَ تُدَنِّسُهَا الآثامُ، 
a crescent of security from blights هِلاَلَ أَمْن مِنَ الآفاتِ، 
and of safety from evil deeds; وَسَلاَمَة مِنَ السَّيِّئاتِ، 
a crescent of auspiciousness containing no misfortune, هِلاَلَ سَعْد لاَ نَحْسَ فِيْهِ، 
of prosperity accompanied by no adversity, وَيُمْن لاَ نَكَدَ مَعَهُ، 
of ease not mixed with difficulty, وَيُسْر لاَ يُمَازِجُهُ عُسْرٌ، 
of good unstained by evil; وَخَيْر لاَ يَشُوبُهُ شَرٌّ، 
a crescent of security and faith, favour and good-doing, safety and submission! هِلاَلَ أَمْن وَإيمَان وَنِعْمَة وَإحْسَان وَسَلاَمَة وَإسْلاَم. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household, أللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
place us among the most satisfied of those over whom the crescent has risen, وَاجْعَلْنَا مِنْ أَرْضَى مَنْ طَلَعَ عَلَيْهِ، 
the purest of those who have looked upon it, وَأَزْكَى مَنْ نَظَرَ إليْهِ، 
the most fortunate of those who have worshipped Thee under it; وَأَسْعَدَ مَنْ تَعَبَّدَ لَكَ فِيهِ، 
give us the success during [the new month] to repent, وَوَفِّقْنَا فِيهِ لِلتَّوْبَةِ، 
preserve us within it from misdeeds, وَاعْصِمْنَـا فِيْهِ مِنَ الْحَـوْبَةِ، 
guard us therein from pursuing disobedience to Thee, وَاحْفَظْنَا فِيهِ مِنْ مُبَاشَرَةِ مَعْصِيَتِكَ، 
allot to us within it thanksgiving for Thy favour, وَأَوْزِعْنَا فِيهِ شُكْرَ نِعْمَتِكَ، 
clothe us during it in the shields of well-being, وَأَلْبِسْنَا فِيهِ جُنَنَ الْعَافِيَةِ، 
and complete for us Thy kindness by perfecting therein obedience to Thee! وَأَتْمِمْ عَلَيْنَا بِاسْتِكْمَالِ طَاعَتِكَ فِيهِ الْمِنَّةَ، 
Surely Thou art All-kind, Praiseworthy. إنَّكَ الْمَنَّانُ الْحَمِيدُ، 
And bless Muhammad and his Household, the good, the pure. وَصَلَّى اللهُ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ الطَّيِّبِينَ الطَّاهِرِينَ. 

