Praise belongs to God, who created night and day through His strength, أَلْحَمْدُ للهِ الَّذِي خَلَقَ اللَّيْلَ وَالنَّهارَ بِقُوَّتِهِ، 
set them apart through His power, وَمَيَّزَ بَيْنَهُمَا بِقُدْرَتِهِ، 
and appointed for each a determined limit and a drawn-out period. وَجَعَلَ لِكُلِّ وَاحِد مِنْهُمَا حَدّاً مَحْدُوداً، وَأَمَداً مَمْدُوداً ، 
He makes each of the two enter into its companion, يُولِجُ كُلَّ وَاحِد مِنْهُمَا فِي صَاحِبِهِ، 
and makes its companion enter into it, as an ordainment from Him for His servants وَيُولِجُ صَاحِبَهُ فِيهِ بِتَقْدِير مِنْهُ لِلْعِبَادِ 
in that through which He feeds them and with which He makes them grow. فِيمَا يَغْـذُوهُمْ بِـهِ وَيُنْشئُهُمْ عَلَيْـهِ، 
He created for them the night, "that they might rest in it" (10:67) from tiring movements فَخَلَقَ لَهُمُ اللَّيْـلَ لِيَسْكُنُوا فِيْهِ مِنْ حَرَكَاتِ التَّعَبِ، 
and wearisome exertions and He made it a garment for them that they might be clothed in its ease and its sleep, وَنَهَضَاتِ النَّصَبِ، وَجَعَلَهُ لِبَاساً لِيَلْبَسُوا مِنْ رَاحَتِهِ وَمَنَامِهِ، 
that it might be for them refreshment and strength, that they might reach therein pleasure and passion. فَيَكُونَ ذَلِكَ جَمَاماً وَقُوَّةً، وَلِيَنَالُوا بِهِ لَذَّةً وَشَهْوَةً. 
He created for them the daytime, "giving sight, that they might seek within it of His bounty" (ref. 17:12) وَخَلَقَ لَهُمُ النَّهارَ مُبْصِراً لِيَبْتَغُوا فِيهِ مِنْ فَضْلِهِ، 
find the means to His provision, and roam freely in His earth, وَلِيَتَسَبَّبُوا إلَى رِزْقِهِ، وَيَسْرَحُوا فِي أَرْضِهِ، 
searching for that through which to attain the immediate in their life in this world طَلَباً لِمَا فِيـهِ نَيْلُ الْعَاجِلِ مِنْ دُنْيَاهُمْ، 
and to achieve the deferred in their life to come. Through all of this He sets right their situation, وَدَرَكُ الاجِلِ فِيْ اُخْراهُمْ. بِكُلِّ ذلِكَ يُصْلِحُ شَأنَهُمْ، 
tries their records, and watches their state in the times for obeying Him, وَيَبْلُو أَخْبَارَهُمْ وَيَنْظُرُ كَيْفَ هُمْ فِي أَوْقَاتِ طَاعَتِـهِ، 
the waystations of His obligations, and the places of His ordinances, وَمَنَازِلِ فُـرُوضِهِ وَمَوَاقِعِ أَحْكَامِهِ 
that He may repay those who do evil with what they have done and repay those who do good with goodness. لِيَجْزِيَ الَّذِينَ أسَاءُوا بِمَا عَمِلُوا وَيَجْزِيَ الَّذِينَ أَحْسَنُوا بِالْحُسْنَى. 
O God, to Thee belongs praise for the sky Thou hast split into dawn for us, اللَّهُمَّ فَلَكَ الْحَمْدُ عَلَى مَافَلَقْتَ لَنَا مِنَ الإصْبَاحِ، 
giving us to enjoy thereby the brightness of daytime, وَمَتَّعْتَنَا بِهِ مِنْ ضَوْءِ النَّهَارِ، 
showing us sought-after nourishments, وَبَصَّرْتَنَا مِنْ مَطَالِبِ الاقْوَاتِ، 
and protecting us from the striking of blights. وَوَقَيْتَنَا فِيهِ مِنْ طَوارِقِ الآفاتِ. 
In the morning we and all things, every one, rise for Thee, أَصْبَحْنَا وَأَصْبَحَتِ الاَشْياءُ كُلُّهَا بِجُمْلَتِهَا لَكَ: 
the heaven and the earth and what Thou hast scattered سَمَاؤُها وَأَرْضُهَا وَمَا بَثَثْتَ 
in each, the still and the moving, the resident فِي كُلِّ وَاحِد مِنْهُمَا سَاكِنُهُ وَمُتَحَرِّكُهُ وَمُقِيمُهُ 
and the journeying, what towers up in the air and what hides under the ground. وَشَاخِصُهُ وَمَا عَلا فِي الْهَواءِ وَمَا كَنَّ تَحْتَ الثَّرى 
We rise in the morning in Thy grasp: أَصْبَحْنَا فِي قَبْضَتِكَ 
Thy kingdom and authority contain us and Thy will embraces us. يَحْوِينَا مُلْكُكَ وَسُلْطَانُكَ وَتَضُمُّنَا مَشِيَّتُكَ، 
We move about by Thy command and turn this way and that through Thy governing. وَنَتَصَرَّفُ عَنْ أَمْرِكَ، وَنَتَقَلَّبُ فِيْ تَدْبِيرِكَ 
We own nothing of the affair except what Thou hast decreed لَيْسَ لَنَا مِنَ الامْرِ إلاّ مَا قَضَيْتَ 
and nothing of the good except what Thou hast given. وَلا مِنَ الْخَيْـرِ إلا مَـا أَعْطَيْتَ. 
This is a fresh, new day, over us a ready witness. وَهَذَا يَوْمٌ حَادِثٌ جَدِيدٌ، وَهُوَ عَلَيْنَا شَاهِدٌ عَتِيدٌ ، 
If we do good, it will take leave from us with praise, and if we do evil, it will part from us in blame. إنْ أحْسَنَّا وَدَّعَنَا بِحَمْد، وَإِنْ أسَأنا فارَقَنا بِذَمّ 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household, اللَّهُمَ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَد وَآلِـهِ 
provide us with the day's good companionship and preserve us وَارْزُقْنَـا حُسْنَ مُصَاحَبَتِهِ وَاعْصِمْنَا 
against parting from it badly by doing a misdeed مِنْ سُوْءِ مُفَارَقَتِهِ بِارْتِكَابِ جَرِيرَة، 
or committing a sin, whether small or great! أَوِ اقْتِرَافِ صَغِيرَة أوْ كَبِيرَة. 
Make our good deeds within it plentiful empty us therein of evil deeds, وَأجْزِلْ لَنَا فِيهِ مِنَ الْحَسَناتِ وَأَخْلِنَا فِيهِ مِنَ السَّيِّئاتِ. 
and fill what lies between its two sides for us with praise and thanksgiving, wages and stores, bounty and beneficence! وَامْلا لَنَا مَا بَيْنَ طَرَفَيْهِ حَمْداً وَشُكْراً وَأجْراً وَذُخْراً وَفَضْلاً وَإحْسَاناً. 
O God, ease our burden on the Noble Writers, اللَّهُمَّ يسِّرْ عَلَى الْكِرَامِ الْكَاتِبِينَ مَؤُونَتَنَا، 
fill our pages for us with our good deeds, وَامْلا لَنَا مِنْ حَسَنَاتِنَا صَحَائِفَنَا. 
and degrade us not before them with our evil works! وَلاَ تُخْزِنَا عِنْدَهُمْ بِسُوءِ أَعْمَالِنَا. 
O God, appoint for us in each of the day's hours a share from Thy servants, اللَّهُمَّ اجْعَلْ لَنَا فِي كُلِّ سَاعَة مِنْ سَاعَاتِهِ حَظّاً مِنْ عِبَادِكَ ، 
a portion of giving thanks to Thee, and a truthful witness among Thy angels! وَنَصِيباً مِنْ شُكْرِكَ وَشَاهِدَ صِدْق مِنْ مَلائِكَتِكَ 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household أللَّهَّمَ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ ، 
and safeguard us from before us and behind us, from our right hands and our left hands وَاحْفَظْنَا مِنْ بَيْنِ أيْدِينَا وَمِنْ خَلْفِنَا وَعَنْ أيْمَانِنَا وَعَنْ شَمَائِلِنَا، 
and from all our directions, a safeguarding that will preserve from disobeying Thee, وَمِنْ جَمِيْعِ نَوَاحِيْنَا حِفْظاً عَاصِماً مِنْ مَعْصِيَتِكَ 
guide to obeying Thee, and be employed for Thy love! هَادِياً إلَى طَاعَتِكَ مُسْتَعْمِلاً لِمَحَبَّتِكَ. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household اللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
and give us success in this day of ours, this night of ours, and in all our days, وَوَفِّقْنَا فِي يَوْمِنَا هذا ولَيْلَتِنَا هذِهِ وَفِي جَمِيعِ أيّامِنَا 
to employ the good, stay away from the evil, give thanks for favours, لاسْتِعْمَالِ الْخَيْرِ وَهِجْـرَانِ الشَرِّ وَشُكْـرِ ألنِّعَمِ 
follow the Sunna's norms, avoid innovations, وَاتّبَـاعِ السُّنَنِ وَمُجَانَبَةِ البِدَعِ 
enjoin good behaviour, forbid the disapproved, وَالأمْرِ بِـالْمَعْرُوفِ وَالنَّهيِ عَنِ الْمُنْكَرِ 
defend Islam, diminish falsehood and abase it, وَحِياطَةِ الإسْلاَمِ وَانْتِقَاصِ الْبَاطِلِ وَإذْلالِهِ 
help the truth and exalt it, guide the misguided, وَنُصْرَةِ الْحَقِّ وَإعْزَازِهِ ، وَإرْشَادِ الضَّالِّ ، 
assist the weak, and reach out to the troubled! وَمُعَاوَنَةِ الضَّعِيفِ وَإدْرَاكِ اللَّهِيْفِ. 
O God, bless Muhammad and his Household اللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
and make this the most fortunate day we have known, وَاجْعَلْهُ أيْمَنَ يَوْم عَهِدْنَاهُ ، 
the most excellent companion we have accompanied, وَأَفْضَلَ صَاحِب صَحِبْنَاهُ ، 
and the best time in which we have lingered! وَخَيْرَ وَقْت ظَلِلْنَا فِيْهِ. 
Place us among the most satisfied of all Thy creatures whom night and day have passed by, وَاجْعَلْنَا مِنْ أرْضَى مَنْ مَرَّ عَلَيْهِ اللَّيْـلُ وَالنَّهَارُ مِنْ جُمْلَةِ خَلْقِكَ 
the most thankful of them for the favours Thou hast done, وأَشْكَـرَهُمْ لِمَا أوْلَيْتَ مِنْ نِعَمِكَ 
the firmest of them in the laws Thou hast set down in the Shari'a, وَأقْوَمَهُمْ بِمَـا شَرَعْتَ مِنْ شَرَائِعِكَ ، 
and the most unyielding of them toward the prohibited acts against which Thou hast cautioned! وَأَوْقَفَهُمْ عَمَّا حَذَّرْتَ مِنْ نَهْيِكَ. 
O God, I call Thee to witness - and Thou art sufficient witness - and I call Thy heaven and Thy earth to witness اللَهُمَّ إنِّي اشْهِدُكَ وَكَفَى بِكَ شَهِيداً وَاُشْهِدُ سَمَاءكَ وَأَرْضَكَ 
and Thy angels and Thy other creatures who inhabit them in this my day, وَمَنْ أَسْكَنْتَهُما مِنْ مَلائِكَتِـكَ وَسَائِرِ خَلْقِكَ فِي يَوْمِي هَذَا ، 
this my hour, this my night, and this my resting place, وَسَاعَتِي هَذِهِ ، وَلَيْلَتِي هَذِهِ ، وَمُسْتَقَرِّي هَذَا ، 
that I bear witness that Thou art God, أنِّي أَشْهَدُ أَنَّكَ أنْتَ اللهُ الِذَّي 
other than whom there is no god, Upholding justice, لاَ إلهَ إلاّ أَنْتَ قَائِمٌ بِـالْقِسْطِ ، 
Equitable in judgement, "Clement to the servants" (2:207), عَدْلٌ فِي الْحُكْم ، رَؤُوفٌ بِالْعِبَادِ ، 
"Master of the kingdom" (3:26), Compassionate to the creatures, مَالِكُ المُلْكِ رَحِيمٌ بِالْخَلْقِ ، 
and that Muhammad is Thy servant and Thy messenger, Thy chosen from among Thy creatures. وَأَنَّ مُحَمَّداً عَبْدُكَ وَرَسُولُكَ وَخِيرَتُكَ مِنْ خَلْقِكَ ، 
Thou didst charge him with Thy message and he delivered it; Thou didst command him to counsel his community and he counselled it. حَمَّلْتَهُ رِسَالَتَكَ فَأدَّاهَا وَأَمَرْتَهُ بالنُّصْحِ لاُِمَّتِهِ فَنَصَحَ لَهَا. 
O God, so bless Muhammad and his Household more than Thou hast blessed any of Thy creatures! اللَّهُمَّ فَصَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ أكْثَرَ مَا صَلَّيْتَ عَلَى أَحَد مِنْ خَلْقِكَ 
Give him for our sake the best Thou hast given any of Thy servants, وَآتِهِ عَنَّا أَفْضَلَ مَا آتَيْتَ أَحَداً مِنْ عِبَادِكَ 
and repay him on our behalf better and more generously than Thou hast repaid any of Thy prophets on behalf of his community! وَاجْزِهِ عَنَّا أَفْضَلَ وَأكْرَمَ مَا جَزَيْتَ أَحَداً مِنْ أَنْبِيائِـكَ عَنْ أمَّتِهِ. 
Thou art All-kind with immensity, the Forgiver of the great, إنَّـكَ أَنْتَ الْمَنَّانُ بِالْجَسِيمِ الْغَـافِر لِلْعَظِيمِ ، 
and Thou art more merciful than every possessor of mercy! وَأَنْتَ أَرْحَمُ مِنْ كُلِّ رَحِيم ، 
So bless Muhammad and his Household, فَصَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
the good, the pure, the chosen, the most distinguished! الطَّيِّبِينَ الطَّاهِرِينَ الأَخْيَارِ الانْجَبِينَ. 
