O God, O ultimate object of needs! أللَّهُمَّ يَا مُنْتَهَى مَطْلَبِ الْحَاجَاتِ 
O He through whom requests are attained! وَيَا مَنْ عِنْدَه نَيْلُ الطَّلِبَاتِ 
O He whose favours are not bought by prices! وَيَا مَنْ لا يَبِيْعُ نِعَمَهُ بالأثْمَانِ 
O He who does not muddy His gifts by the imposition of obligations! وَيَا مَنْ لا يُكَدِّرُ عَطَايَاهُ بِالامْتِنَانِ 
O He along with whom nothing is needed and without whom nothing can be done! وَيَا مَنْ يُسْتَغْنَى بِهِ وَلاَ يُسْتَغْنَى عَنْهُ 
O He toward whom desire is ever directed and never turned away! وَيَا مَنْ يُرْغَبُ إلَيْهِ وَلا يُرْغَبُ عَنْهُ. 
O He whose treasuries cannot be exhausted by demands! وَيَا مَنْ لا تُفنى خَزَآئِنَهُ الْمَسَائِلُ 
O He whose wisdom cannot be altered by any means! وَيَا مَنْ لاَ تُبَدِّلُ حِكْمَتَهُ الْوَسَائِلُ. 
O He from whom the needs of the needy are never cut off! وَيَا مَنْ لاَ تَنْقَطِعُ عَنْهُ حَوَائِجُ الْمُحْتَاجِينَ 
O He who is not distressed by the supplications of the supplicators! وَيَا مَنْ لاَ يُعَنِّيهِ دُعَاءُ الدَّاعِينَ 
Thou hast lauded Thyself for having no need for Thy creatures, and it suits Thee to have no need for them, تَمَدَّحْتَ بِالْغَنَاءِ عَنْ خَلْقِكَ وَأَنْتَ أَهْلُ الْغِنَى عَنْهُمْ 
and Thou hast attributed to them poverty, and it suits them to be poor toward Thee. وَنَسَبْتَهُمْ إلَى الفَقْرِ وَهُمْ أَهْلُ الْفَقْرِ إلَيْكَ. 
So he who strives to remedy his lack through what is with Thee فَمَنْ حَاوَلَ سَدَّ خَلَّتِهِ مِنْ عِنْدِكَ 
and wishes to turn poverty away from himself through Thee has sought his need وَرَامَ صَرْفَ الْفَقْر عَنْ نَفْسِهِ بِكَ فَقَدْ طَلَبَ حَاجَتَهُ 
in the most likely place and come to his request from the right quarter. فِي مَظَانِّها وَأَتَى طَلِبَتَهُ مِنْ وَجْهِهَا 
But he who turns in his need toward one of Thy creatures or assigns the cause of its being granted وَمَنْ تَوَجَّهَ بِحَاجَتِهِ إلَى أَحَد مِنْ خَلْقِكَ أَوْ جَعَلَهُ سَبَبَ نُجْحِهَا 
to other than Thee, has exposed himself to deprivation دُونَكَ فَقَدْ تَعَرَّضَ لِلْحِرْمَانِ 
and deserves to miss Thy beneficence. وَاسْتَحَقَّ مِنْ عِنْدِكَ فَوْتَ الاِحْسَانِ 
O God, I have a need of Thee: my exertion has fallen short of it أللَّهُمَّ وَلِي إلَيْكَ حَاجَةٌ قَـدْ قَصَّرَ عَنْهَـا جُهْدِي 
and my stratagems have been cut back before reaching it. وَتَقَطَّعَتْ دُونَهَا حِيَلِي 
My soul induced me to present it to him who presents his needs to Thee وَسَوَّلَتْ لِيْ نَفْسِي رَفْعَهَا إلَى مَنْ يَرْفَعُ حَوَائِجَهُ إلَيْكَ 
and can do nothing without Thee in his requests, وَلاَ يَسْتَغْنِي فِي طَلِبَاتِهِ عَنْكَ 
but this is one the slips of the offenders, وَهِيَ زَلَّةٌ مِنْ زَلَلِ الْخَاطِئِينَ 
one of the stumbles of the sinners! وَعَثْرَةٌ مِنْ عَثَراتِ الْمُذْنِبِينَ 
Then through Thy reminding me, I was aroused from my heedlessness, ثُمَّ انْتَبَهْتُ بِتَذْكِيرِكَ لِي مِنْ غَفْلَتِي 
through Thy giving success, I stood up from my slip, وَنَهَضْتُ بِتَوْفِيقِكَ مِنْ زَلَّتِي 
and through Thy pointing the way, I returned and withdrew from my stumble. وَ رَجَعتُ وَنَكَصْتُ بِتَسْـدِيدِكَ عَنْ عَثْـرَتِي 
I said: Glory be to my Lord! How can the needy ask from the needy? وَقُلْتُ: سُبْحَانَ رَبّي كَيْفَ يَسْأَلُ مُحْتَاجٌ مُحْتَاجـاً 
How can the destitute beseech the destitute? وَأَنَّى يَرْغَبُ مُعْدِمٌ إلَى مُعْدِم؟ 
So I went straight to Thee, my God, in beseeching, فَقَصَدْتُكَ يا إلهِي بِالرَّغْبَةِ 
and I sent Thee my hope with trust in Thee. وَأَوْفَدْتُ عَلَيْكَ رَجَائِي بِالثِّقَةِ بِكَ 
I came to know that the many I request from Thee are few before Thy wealth, وَعَلِمْتُ أَنَّ كَثِيرَ مَا أَسْأَلُكَ يَسِيرٌ فِي وُجْدِكَ 
the weighty I ask from Thee is vile before Thy plenty; وَأَنَّ خَطِيرَ مَا أَسْتَوْهِبُكَ حَقِيرٌ فِيْ وُسْعِكَ 
Thy generosity is not constrained by anyone's asking, وَأَنَّ كَرَمَكَ لاَ يَضِيقُ عَنْ سُؤَال أحَد 
Thy hand is higher in bestowing gifts than every hand! وَأَنَّ يَدَكَ بِالْعَطايا أَعْلَى مِنْ كُلِّ يَد. 
O God, so bless Muhammad and His Household, take me through They generosity to Thy gratuitous bounty أللَهُمَّ فَصَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ وَاحْمِلْنِي بِكَرَمِكَ عَلَى التَّفَضُّلِ 
And take me not through Thy justice to what I deserve! وَلاَ تَحْمِلْنِي بِعَدْلِكَ عَلَى الاسْتِحْقَاقِ 
I am not the first beseecher to beseech Thee and Thou bestowed upon him while he deserved withholding, فَما أَنَا بِأَوَّلِ رَاغِبِ رَغِبَ إلَيْكَ فَأَعْطَيْتَهُ وَهُوَ يَسْتَحِقُّ الْمَنْعَ 
nor am I the first to ask from Thee and Thou wast bounteous toward him while he merited deprivation. وَلاَ بِأَوَّلِ سَائِل سَأَلَكَ فَأَفْضَلْتَ عَلَيْهِ وَهُوَ يَسْتَوْجِبُ الْحِرْمَانَ. 
O Allah, bless Muhammad and his Household, أللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ 
respond to my supplication, come near my call, وَكُنْ لِدُعَائِي مُجِيباً وَمِنْ نِدائِي قَرِيباً 
have mercy on my pleading, listen to my voice, وَلِتَضَرُّعِي رَاحِماً وَلِصَوْتِي سَامِعاً 
cut not short my hope for Thee, sever not my thread to Thee, وَلاَ تَقْطَعْ رَجَائِي عَنْكَ وَلا تَبُتَّ سَبَبِي مِنْكَ 
turn not my face in this my need, and other needs, away from Thee, وَلاَ تُوَجِّهْنِي فِي حَاجَتيْ هَذِهِ وَغَيْرِهَا إلى سِوَاكَ 
attend for my sake to the fulfillment of my request, the granting of my need, وَتَوَلَّنِي بِنُجْحِ طَلِبَتِي وَقَضاءِ حَاجَتِي 
and the attainment of what I have asked before I leave this place وَنَيْلِ سُؤْلِي قَبْلَ زَوَالِي عَنْ مَوْقِفِي هَذَا 
through Thy making easy for me the difficult and Thy excellent ordainment for me in all affairs! بِتَيسِيرِكَ لِيَ الْعَسِيْرَ وَحُسْنِ تَقْدِيرِكَ لِي فِي جَمِيعِ الأُمُورِ. 
Bless Muhammad and his Household with a permanent, ever-growing blessing, whose perpetuity has no cutting off وَصَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِهِ صَلاَةً دَائِمَةً نَامِيَةً لاَ انْقِطَاعَ لأِبَدِهَا 
and whose term knows no limit, and make that a help to me and a cause for the granting of my request! Thou art Boundless, Generous! وَلا مُنْتَهَى لأِمَدِهَا وَاجْعَلْ ذَلِكَ عَوْناً لِيْ وَسَبَباً لِنَجَاحِ طَلِبَتِي إنَّكَ وَاسِعٌ كَرِيْمٌ. 
And of my needs,my Lord, are such and such وَمِنْ حَاجَتِي يَا رَبِّ كَذَا وَكَذَا 
(Here you should state your needs, then prostrate yourself, and say in your prostration:) وَتَذْكُرُ حَاجَتَكَ ثمّ تَسْجُـدُ وَتَقُولُ فِي سُجُودِكَ: 
Thy bounty has comforted me and Thy beneficence has shown the way, فَضْلُكَ آنَسَنِي وَإحْسَانُكَ دَلَّنِي 
So I ask Thee by Thee and by Muhammad and his Household (Thy blessings be upon them) that Thou sendest me not back in disappointment! فَأَسْأَلُكَ بِكَ وَبِمُحَمَّـد وَآلِهِ صَلَواتُكَ عَلَيْهمْ أَنْ لاَ تَرُدَّنِي خَائِباً. 
