O Reliever of worry! O Remover of grief! يَا فَارِجَ الْهَمِّ وَكَاشِفَ الغَمِّ، 
O Merciful in this world and the next and Compassionate in both! يَا رَحْمنَ الدُّنْيَا وَالآخِرَةِ وَرَحِيمَهُمَا، 
Bless Muhammad and the Household of Muhammad, صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِ مُحَمَّد، 
relieve my worry, and remove my grief! وَافْرُجْ هَمِّيَ، وَاكْشِفْ غَمِّيَ، 
O One, O Unique, O Eternal Refuge! يَا وَاحِدُ يَا أَحَدُ، يَا صَمَدُ، 
O He Who has not begotten, nor has been begotten, يَامَنْ لَمْ يَلِدْ وَلَمْ يُولَدْ، 
and equal to Him is not any one! وَلَمْ يَكُنْ لَهُ كُفُواً أَحَدٌ، 
Preserve me, purify me, and take away my affliction! اعْصِمْنِي وَطَهِّرْنِي، وَاْذهِبْ بِبَلِيَّتِي. 
HERE YOU SHOULD RECITE THE THRONE VERSE (2:255), THE TWO SURAS OF TAKING REFUGE (113-114), AND UNITY (112). THEN SAY: [وَاقْرَأْ آيَةَ الْكُرسِيّ وَالْمُعَوِّذَتَيْنِ وَقُلْ هُوَ اللهُ أَحَدٌ وَقُلْ:] 
O God, I ask Thee with the asking of him whose neediness is intense, أَللَّهُمَّ إنِّيْ أَسْأَلُكَ سُؤَالَ مَنِ اشْتَدَّتْ فَاقَتُهُ، 
whose strength is frail, whose sins are many, وَضَعُفَتْ قُوَّتُهُ، وَكَثُرَتْ ذُنُوبُهُ، 
the asking of one who finds no helper in his neediness, سُؤَالَ مَنْ لاَ يَجِدُ لِفَاقَتِهِ مُغِيْثاً، 
no strengthener in his frailty, وَلاَ لِضَعْفِهِ مُقَوِّياً، 
no forgiver of his sin other than Thee, وَلاَ لِذَنْبِهِ غَافِراً غَيْرَكَ، 
O Possessor of majesty and munificence! يَا ذَا الْجَلاَلِ وَالإكْرَامِ. 
I ask of Thee a work through which Thou wilt love him who works it أَسْأَلُكَ عَمَلاً تُحِبُّ بِهِ مَنْ عَمِلَ بِهِ، 
and a certainty by which Thou wilt profit him who is certain وَيَقِيناً تَنْفَعُ بِهِ مَنِ اسْتَيْقَنَ بِهِ 
with the truth of certainty concerning the execution of Thy command! حَقَّ الْيَقِينِ فِيْ نَفَاذِ أَمْرِكَ. 
O God, bless Muhammad and the Household of Muhammad, أللَّهُمَّ صَلِّ عَلَى مُحَمَّد وَآلِ مُحَمَّد، 
take my soul while it is firm in sincerity, وَاقْبِضَ عَلَى الصِّدْقِ نَفْسِي، 
cut off my need for this world, وَاقْطَعْ مِنَ الدُّنْيَا حَاجَتِي، 
make my desire for what is with Thee وَاجْعَلْ فِيمَا عِنْدَكَ رَغْبَتِي، 
become a yearning to meet Thee, شَوْقاً إلَى لِقَائِكَ، 
and give me true confidence in Thee! وَهَبْ لِي صِدْقَ التَّوَكُّلِ عَلَيْكَ . 
I ask of Thee the good of the writ that has been made and I seek refuge with Thee أَسْأَلُكَ مِنْ خَيْرِ كِتَاب قَدْ خَلاَ وَأَعُوذُ بِكَ 
from the evil of the writ that has been made. مِنْ شَرِّ كِتَاب قَدْ خَلاَ 
I ask of Thee the fear of The worshipers, أَسْأَلُكَ خَوْفَ الْعَابِدِينَ لَكَ، 
the worship of those humbly fearful of Thee, وَعِبَادَةَ الْخَاشِعِينَ لَكَ، 
the certainty of those who have confidence in Thee, وَيَقِيْنَ الْمُتَوَكِّلِينَ عَلَيْكَ، 
and the confidence of those who have faith in Thee. وَتَوَكُّلَ الْمُؤْمِنِينَ عَلَيْكَ. 
O God, make my desire in my asking أَللَّهُمَّ اجْعَلْ رَغْبَتِي فِي مَسْأَلَتِي 
like the desire of Thy friends in their asking, مِثْلَ رَغْبَةِ أَوْلِيَآئِكَ فِي مَسَائِلِهِمْ، 
and my fear like the fear of Thy friends! وَرَهْبَتِيْ مِثْلَ رَهْبَةِ أَوْلِيَآئِكَ، 
Employ me in Thy good pleasure through works وَاسْتَعْمِلْنِي فِي مَرْضَاتِكَ، 
in which I will not leave aside anything of Thy religion عَمَلاً لاَ أَتْرُكُ مَعَهُ شَيْئاً مِنْ دِيْنِكَ 
fearing any of Thy creatures! مَخَافَةَ أَحْد مِنْ خَلْقِكَ. 
God, this is my need, so make my desire for it great, أللَّهُمَّ هَذِهِ حَاجَتِي، فَأَعْظِمْ فِيهَا رَغْبَتِي، 
within it make manifest my excuse, through it instil me with my argument, and by means of it make well my body! وَأَظْهِرْ فِيهَا عُذْرِي، وَلَقِّنِي فِيهَا حُجَّتِي وَعَافِ فِيْهَا جَسَدِيْ. 
O God, some rise in the morning having trust or hope in other than Thee. أللَّهُمَّ مَنْ أَصْبَحَ لَهُ ثِقَةٌ أَوْ رَجَآءٌ غَيْرُكَ، 
I rise in the morning, and Thou art my trust فَقَدْ أَصْبَحْتُ وَأَنْتَ ثِقَتِي 
and my hope in all affairs, وَرَجَآئِي فِي الأُمُورِ كُلِّهَا، 
so decree for me those which are best in outcome فَاقْضِ لِيْ بِخَيْرِهَا عَاقِبَةً، 
and deliver me from misguiding trials, وَنَجِّنِيْ مِنْ مُضِلاَّتِ الْفِتَنِ، 
O Most Merciful of the merciful! بِرَحْمَتِكَ يَا أَرْحَمَ الرَّاحِمِينَ. 
And God bless our chief, Muhammad the Messenger of God, the chosen, وَصَلَّى اللهُ عَلَى سَيِّدِنَا مُحَمَّد رُسُولِ اللهِ المُصْطَفَى، 
and his Household, the pure! وَعَلَى آلِهِ الطَّاهِرِينَ. 

