السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا وَلِيَّ اللَّهِ وَ ابْنَ وَلِيِّهِ
Peace be on you, O the representative of Allah, and the son of His representative!
 السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا حُجَّةَ اللَّهِ وَ ابْنَ حُجَّتِهِ
Peace be on you, O the decisive argument of Allah, ant the son of His decisive argument!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا صَفِيَّ اللَّهِ وَ ابْنَ صَفِيِّهِ 
Peace be on you, O the sincerely attached friend of Allah, and the son of His sincerely attached friend!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا أَمِينَ اللَّهِ وَ ابْنَ أَمِينِهِ
 Peace be on you, O the confidant of Allah, and the son of His confidant! 
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا نُورَ اللَّهِ فِي ظُلُمَاتِ الْأَرْضِ
Peace be on you, O the light of Allah in the darkness of the (ignorant) world! 
 السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا إِمَامَ الْهُدَى
Peace be on you, O theGuide who showed the right path! 
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا عَلَمَ الدِّينِ وَ التُّقَى
Peace be on you, O the symbol of religion and piety!
 السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا خَازِنَ عِلْمِ النَّبِيِّينَ
Peace be on you, O the treasurer of the wisdom of the Prophets!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا خَازِنَ عِلْمِ الْمُرْسَلِينَ 
Peace be on you, O the treasurer of the wisdom of the Messengers!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا نَائِبَ الْأَوْصِيَاءِ السَّابِقِينَ
Peace be on you, O the vicegerent of the earlier guardians,
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا مَعْدِنَ الْوَحْيِ الْمُبِينِ 
Peace be on you, O the depository of the evident revelations!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا صَاحِبَ الْعِلْمِ الْيَقِينِ
Peace be on you, O the possessor of sure knowledge!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا عَيْبَةَ عِلْمِ الْمُرْسَلِينَ
Peace be on you, O the treasury of the Messenger’s knowledge!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ أَيُّهَا الْإِمَامُ الصَّالِحُ 
Peace be on you, O the virtuous guide!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ أَيُّهَا الْإِمَامُ الزَّاهِدُ
Peace be on you, O the devout guide!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ أَيُّهَا الْإِمَامُ الْعَابِدُ 
Peace be on you, O the worshipful guide!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ أَيُّهَا الْإِمَامُ السَّيِّدُ الرَّشِيدُ
Peace be on you, O the principal guide who followed the right path!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ أَيُّهَا الْمَقْتُولُ الشَّهِيدُ 
Peace be on you, O the murdered martyr!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا ابْنَ رَسُولِ اللَّهِ وَ ابْنَ وَصِيِّهِ
Peace be on you, O the son of the Messenger of Allah, and the son of his successor!
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا مَوْلاَيَ مُوسَى بْنَ جَعْفَرٍ وَ رَحْمَةُ اللَّهِ وَ بَرَكَاتُهُ
Peace be on you, O my Mawlaa, Moosa bin Jaa’-far, and also mercy and blessings of Allah!
أَشْهَدُ أَنَّكَ قَدْ بَلَّغْتَ عَنِ اللَّهِ مَا حَمَّلَكَ 
I bear witness that you carried and delivered that for which Allah has commissioned you, 
وَ حَفِظْتَ مَا اسْتَوْدَعَكَ
protected that which was entrusted to you,
وَ حَلَّلْتَ حَلاَلَ اللَّهِ وَ حَرَّمْتَ حَرَامَ اللَّهِ
prescribed that which Allah has made lawful, prescribed that which Allah has made unlawful, 
وَ أَقَمْتَ أَحْكَامَ اللَّهِ وَ تَلَوْتَ كِتَابَ اللَّهِ
made clear the divine rules, studied and interpreted the Book of Allah,
وَ صَبَرْتَ عَلَى الْأَذَى فِي جَنْبِ اللَّهِ وَ جَاهَدْتَ فِي اللَّهِ حَقَّ جِهَادِهِ حَتَّى أَتَاكَ الْيَقِينُ
exercised self-control in the midst sake of Allah, strived in the cause of Allah, leaving no stone unturned, till the inevitable came unto you.
وَ أَشْهَدُ أَنَّكَ مَضَيْتَ عَلَى مَا مَضَى عَلَيْهِ آبَاؤُكَ
I bear witness that you followed the path which your pure forefathers,
 الطَّاهِرُونَ وَ أَجْدَادُكَ الطَّيِّبُونَ
pious ancestors and the rightly guided guides, 
الْأَوْصِيَاءُ الْهَادُونَ الْأَئِمَّةُ الْمَهْدِيُّونَ
the successors of the Holy Prophet, had followed 
 لَمْ تُؤْثِرْ عَمًى عَلَى هُدًى وَ لَمْ تَمِلْ مِنْ حَقٍّ إِلَى بَاطِلٍ
never accommodated waywardness to jeopardise guidance, never turned aside truth to make room for falsehood.
وَ أَشْهَدُ أَنَّكَ نَصَحْتَ لِلَّهِ وَ لِرَسُولِهِ وَ لِأَمِيرِ الْمُؤْمِنِينَ
I bear witness that, verily, you always gave sincere advice to the people in the matter of Allah, His Messenger, and the Ameer ul Moomineen;
وَ أَنَّكَ أَدَّيْتَ الْأَمَانَةَ وَ اجْتَنَبْتَ الْخِيَانَةَ وَ أَقَمْتَ الصَّلاَةَ وَ آتَيْتَ الزَّكَاةَ
verily, you conscientiously returned the deposits kept in you safe custody, kept away from abuse of confidence established prayers, gave the prescribed share to the needy, 
 وَ أَمَرْتَ بِالْمَعْرُوفِ وَ نَهَيْتَ عَنِ الْمُنْكَرِ
commanded to do that which is lawful, not to do that which is unlawful, 
وَ عَبَدْتَ اللَّهَ مُخْلِصاً مُجْتَهِداً مُحْتَسِباً حَتَّى أَتَاكَ الْيَقِينُ
sincerely served Allah, gave just decisions and took proper action, till the inevitable came unto you.
فَجَزَاكَ اللَّهُ عَنِ الْإِسْلاَمِ وَ أَهْلِهِ أَفْضَلَ الْجَزَاءِ وَ أَشْرَفَ الْجَزَاءِ
Allah compensated you for (your) total submission to Him, with superior most and continuous rewards. 
أَتَيْتُكَ يَا ابْنَ رَسُولِ اللَّهِ زَائِراً عَارِفاً بِحَقِّكَ
I have come to visit you, O the son of the Messenger of Allah, aware of your rights,
 مُقِرّاً بِفَضْلِكَ مُحْتَمِلاً لِعِلْمِكَ مُحْتَجِباً بِذِمَّتِكَ
 conscious of your excellence, equipped with you knowledge, covered with your guarantee.
عَائِذاً بِقَبْرِكَ لاَئِذاً بِضَرِيحِكَ مُسْتَشْفِعاً بِكَ إِلَى اللَّهِ
I have taken refuge near your grave, your “Zarih” is my sanctuary. You are my advocate before Allah, 
مُوَالِياً لِأَوْلِيَائِكَ مُعَادِياً لِأَعْدَائِكَ مُسْتَبْصِراً بِشَأْنِكَ وَ بِالْهُدَى الَّذِي أَنْتَ عَلَيْهِ
I am a friend of your friends, I am averse to your enemies, well acquainted with your rank, and with the guidance you adhered to,
عَالِماً بِضَلاَلَةِ مَنْ خَالَفَكَ وَ بِالْعَمَى الَّذِي هُمْ عَلَيْهِ
mindful of the depravity of your opponents, and of the waywardness in which they are wandering.
بِأَبِي أَنْتَ وَ أُمِّي وَ نَفْسِي وَ أَهْلِي وَ مَالِي
I, my father, and my mother, my family, my possessions 
 وَ وُلْدِي يَا ابْنَ رَسُولِ اللَّهِ
and my children are at your disposal, O the son of the Messenger of Allah!
أَتَيْتُكَ مُتَقَرِّباً بِزِيَارَتِكَ إِلَى اللَّهِ تَعَالَى وَ مُسْتَشْفِعاً بِكَ إِلَيْهِ
I have come to you to seek nearness of Allah through my visit to you, and to nominate you as my advocate before Him,
فَاشْفَعْ لِي عِنْدَ رَبِّكَ لِيَغْفِرَ لِي ذُنُوبِي وَ يَعْفُوَ عَنْ جُرْمِي وَ يَتَجَاوَزَ عَنْ سَيِّئَاتِي
therefore, speak to your Lord to forgive my sins, to pardon my transgressions, 
وَ يَمْحُوَ عَنِّي خَطِيئَاتِي وَ يُدْخِلَنِي الْجَنَّةَ
to overlook my wrongdoings to wipe off my mistakes, to let me enter the Paradise,
وَ يَتَفَضَّلَ عَلَيَّ بِمَا هُوَ أَهْلُهُ وَ يَغْفِرَ لِي وَ لِآبَائِي وَ لِإِخْوَانِي وَ أَخَوَاتِي
to treat me with kindness which He is able to do, to grant me amnesty, and to my fathers, to my brothers, to my sisters, 
وَ لِجَمِيعِ الْمُؤْمِنِينَ وَ الْمُؤْمِنَاتِ فِي مَشَارِقِ الْأَرْضِ وَ مَغَارِبِهَا
to all the believing men and the believing women, wherever they are in the earth, (from east to west) 
 بِفَضْلِهِ وَ جُودِهِ وَ مَنِّهِ
in the name of His obligingness, in the name of His generosity, in the name of His kindness.
السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا مَوْلاَيَ يَا مُوسَى بْنَ جَعْفَرٍ وَ رَحْمَةُ اللَّهِ وَ بَرَكَاتُهُ
Peace be on you, O my Mawlaa, O Moosa bin Jaa’-far, and also mercy and blessings of Allah!
أَشْهَدُ أَنَّكَ الْإِمَامُ الْهَادِي وَ الْوَلِيُّ الْمُرْشِدُ 
I bear witness that, verily, you are the guide who showed the right path, the guardian who adhered to the true path,
وَ أَنَّكَ مَعْدِنُ التَّنْزِيلِ وَ صَاحِبُ التَّأْوِيلِ
verily, you are the depository of the revelation, and exposed its true meanings;
وَ حَامِلُ التَّوْرَاةِ وَ الْإِنْجِيلِ وَ الْعَالِمُ الْعَادِلُ وَ الصَّادِقُ الْعَامِلُ
your are the bearer of the Tawrayt and Injeel, you are an honest scholar, and a truthful performer.
يَا مَوْلاَيَ أَنَا أَبْرَأُ إِلَى اللَّهِ مِنْ أَعْدَائِكَ وَ أَتَقَرَّبُ إِلَى اللَّهِ بِمُوَالاَتِكَ
O my Mawlaa! I turn to Allah by avoiding your enemies, I seek nearness of Allah through my love for you,
فَصَلَّى اللَّهُ عَلَيْكَ وَ عَلَى آبَائِكَ وَ أَجْدَادِكَ وَ أَبْنَائِكَ وَ شِيعَتِكَ وَ مُحِبِّيكَ وَ رَحْمَةُ اللَّهِ وَ بَرَكَاتُه
blessings of Allah be on you, on your forefathers, on your ancestors, on your children and your friends and followers.
