السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكُمْ يَا خُزَّانَ عِلْمِ اللَّهِ السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكُمْ يَا تَرَاجِمَةَ وَحْيِ اللَّه
Peace be on you, O depositories of Allah"s knowledge! Peace be on you, O commentators of "Wahi" (revealed words of Allah)!
 
  السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكُمْ يَا أَئِمَّةَ الْهُدَى السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكُمْ يَا أَعْلاَمَ التُّقَى
Peace be on you, O rightly guided Guides unto the true way of life! Peace be on you, O symbols of devotion to duty!
 
  السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكُمْ يَا أَوْلاَدَ رَسُولِ اللَّه
Peace be on you, O descendants of the Messenger of Allah!
 
  أَنَا عَارِفٌ بِحَقِّكُمْ مُسْتَبْصِرٌ بِشَأْنِكُمْ مُعَادٍ لِأَعْدَائِكُمْ مُوَالٍ لِأَوْلِيَائِكُمْ بِأَبِي أَنْتُمْ وَ أُمِّي صَلَوَاتُ اللَّهِ عَلَيْكُم
I am aware of your true rights;look attentively at your refined disposition, full of joy, honour and dignity, take leave and go far away from your enemies, love dearly and keep company of your friends, with my father (I am) at your disposal, and also my mother, blessings of Allah be on you.
 
  اللَّهُمَّ إِنِّي أَتَوَالَى آخِرَهُمْ كَمَا تَوَالَيْتُ أَوَّلَهُم
O my Allah, I willingly submit (out of love and friendship) to all of them in unbroken succession, just as Thou appointed the first of them the "Mawlaa",
 
  وَ أَبْرَأُ مِنْ كُلِّ وَلِيجَةٍ دُونَهُمْ وَ أَكْفُرُ بِالْجِبْتِ وَ الطَّاغُوتِ وَ اللاَّتِ وَ الْعُزَّى
and I am free from the guilt of taking shelter with any other save them, deny and curse "Jibt" and "taghoot""Laat" and "Uzzaa"
 
  صَلَوَاتُ اللَّهِ عَلَيْكُمْ يَا مَوَالِيَّ وَ رَحْمَةُ اللَّهِ وَ بَرَكَاتُه
Blessings of Allah be on you O my beloved Mawlaas! Mercy of Allah be on you, and His blessings
 
  السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا سَيِّدَ الْعَابِدِينَ وَ سُلاَلَةَ الْوَصِيِّين
Peace be on you, O pride of worshippers (of Allah)(Zaynul A"abideen), the founder of the family of the successors (Imams).
 
  السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا بَاقِرَ عِلْمِ النَّبِيِّين
Peace be on you, (O Baaqir), he who inherited, knew, and enlarged the knowledge of the Prophets.
 
  السَّلاَمُ عَلَيْكَ يَا صَادِقاً مُصَدَّقاً فِي الْقَوْلِ وَ الْفِعْل
Peace be on you, O (Saadiq) truthful, his words were true, his deeds were good.
 
  يَا مَوَالِيَّ هَذَا يَوْمُكُمْ وَ هُوَ يَوْمُ الثُّلاَثَاءِ وَ أَنَا فِيهِ ضَيْفٌ لَكُم
O my Mawlaas! today is your day, Tuesday, in its hours I take refuge with you,
 
  وَ مُسْتَجِيرٌ بِكُمْ فَأَضِيفُونِي وَ أَجِيرُونِي بِمَنْزِلَةِ اللَّهِ عِنْدَكُمْ وَ آلِ بَيْتِكُمْ الطَّيِّبِينَ الطَّاهِرِين
and seek your nearness, therefore receive me with open arms, and let me be near you, in the name and for the sake of your belief in Allah, and (belief) of your pure and pious family.
